SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The Latest on the shooting of an unarmed black man by Sacramento police (all times local):7:20 p.m.Protesters again blocked fans from entering the NBA arena as the Sacramento King's game began.They gathered to protest the March 18 killing of Stephon Clark by Sacramento police. It's the second protest blocking off the Sacramento King's arena since then.Protesters stood in front of the doors on several sides of the arena and some taunted fans waiting to enter.The team's game against the Dallas Mavericks tipped off only a few minutes after the scheduled time. The 17,600-seat arena was sparsely populated.Several blocks away a City Council meeting was packed with residents discussing the shooting. Clark's brother, Stevante Clark, disrupted the meeting when it began.__6:40 p.m.The brother of an unarmed black man killed by Sacramento police interrupted a Sacramento City Council meeting by jumping on the desk in front of the mayor and chanting his brother Stephon Clark's name.Stevante Clark marched into the Tuesday meeting, jumped on the dais and danced around.He demanded to speak and said he didn't think the council would make meaningful changes as a result of his brother's death.The council adjourned for roughly 15 minutes as a result of the disruption.Twenty-two-year-old Stephon Clark was fatally shot by police March 18 in his grandmother's backyard. Officers said they initially thought he had a gun. He was holding a cell phone.__4:15 p.m.The family of an unarmed black man killed by Sacramento police is skeptical that there will be a proper investigation — even with the state attorney general involved.The office announced Tuesday that it has joined the investigation into last week's fatal shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark.The police chief says he hopes the attorney general's involvement will bring faith and transparency to the case that has sparked angry protests.Clark's uncle, Curtis Gordon, says the family will wait to see what results. He says it's all talk at this point.Police had been responding to a call of someone breaking car windows.Activists have sought greater independence in the investigation, with some calling for criminal charges against the two officers.___9:50 a.m.The California attorney general's office is joining an investigation into the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by Sacramento police to provide independent oversight.Sacramento Police Chief Daniel Hahn announced the partnership Tuesday alongside Attorney General Xavier Becerra (HAH-vee-air Bah-sehr'-ah). He says he hopes it will build "faith and confidence" in the investigation.The police are investigating the shooting of 22-year-old Stephon Clark on March 18 by two officers who thought he had a gun. He was holding only a cellphone.The police had been responding to a call of someone breaking car windows.Activists have called for greater independence in the investigation and some have argued the two officers should be charged.Hahn promised transparency in the investigation and urged protesters to exercise calm.