Two series debut on ABC: the return of “Roseanne” and the family comedy “Splitting Up Together.” ROSEANNE 8 p.m. on ABC. Recent resurrections of shows like “Will & Grace” and “Twin Peaks” prove that ’90s television is thriving. So it’s no surprise that the family sitcom “Roseanne” gets a comeback. The original series, which ran for nine seasons, brought a relatable aspect of American life to the small screen with its depiction of the Conners, a working-class family in fictional Lanford, Ill. This revival’s premiere quickly sets the show in the present, as Roseanne (Roseanne Barr) and her sister, Jackie (Laurie Metcalf), bump heads over Roseanne’s support for Donald Trump in the 2016 election. (Ms. Barr has been an outspoken supporter of President Trump.) In his review, James Poniewozik welcomed the show’s return, writing, “Like that old couch you can’t throw out, it may just have a good year or two left in it.” Need a refresher? The original episodes are streaming on Amazon Prime Video.FOOD EXPOSED WITH NELUFAR HEDAYAT 8 p.m. on Fusion. The Fusion correspondent Nelufar Hedayat investigates the global food chain to reveal the human and environmental costs of modern appetites in this new documentary series. In the premiere, Ms. Hedayat explores food waste in New York, Los Angeles and Guatemala.SPLITTING UP TOGETHER 9:30 p.m. on ABC. Jenna Fischer (“The Office”) and Oliver Hudson (“Scream Queens”) play a newly divorced couple who (sort of) live under the same roof for the sake of their children in this new comedy. Each week, they rotate roles: The “on-duty” parent stays in the house to look after the children, while the “off-duty” parent lounges in the garage. The pilot opens with the couple breaking the news of the divorce to their friends and family, and dealing with the aftermath. Ellen DeGeneres is an executive producer of the show, which is adapted from a Danish series.THE JIM JEFFERIES SHOW 10:30 p.m. on Comedy Central.  Jim Jefferies tackles gun violence and reform in this Season 2 premiere of his politically charged late-night talk show. The 10th season premiere of “Tosh.0” leads in at 10 p.m.THE LITTLE HOURS (2017) on iTunes, Amazon and Hulu. Alison Brie, Aubrey Plaza and Kate Micucci play irreverent nuns in a 14th-century Italian convent in this loose adaptation of Giovanni Boccaccio’s “The Decameron.” Directed by Jeff Baena, the film picks up when a hunky groundskeeper (Dave Franco), who’s introduced to the wild girls as a deaf mute to keep them at bay, arrives on the premises. Naturally, desires are unleashed and chaos ensues. Some critics have applauded the movie’s screwball comedy and overly salacious scenes, but others weren’t impressed. In her review for The New York Times, Jeannette Catsoulis wrote, “Boccaccio might have had medieval audiences rolling in the aisles, but Mr. Baena squanders an R rating and a roster of household names while managing to raise little more than a smile.”