To the Editor:Re “With Passion and Fury, Students March on Guns” (front page, March 25):We were nine blocks away on Pennsylvania Avenue when Emma González personalized those killed in Parkland, Fla. — “… and my friend Carmen would never complain to me again about piano practice. … Jamie Guttenberg would never. Meadow Pollack would never” — and suddenly stood silent.We thought the loudspeakers had broken. The silence continued. Scattered groups started chanting slogans to fill the void, and faded into uncertain silence.She had begun her speech saying, “Long, tearful chaotic hours in the scorching afternoon sun were spent not knowing.” When she concluded we realized the uncertainty, the tension, the anxiety she created with her unexpected silence had conveyed what the children at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School had lived through, but their uncertainty was not about a speech or loudspeakers — it was about their lives.Emma González delivered the Gettysburg Address for our times. It is for us the living to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us.PHILIP M. HOCKERALEXANDRIA, VA.To the Editor:I have the most tremendous admiration for the way students organized and carried out the anti-gun protests Saturday and would like to make one suggestion: In the months leading up to the midterm elections, publicize over and over again lists of how elected lawmakers stand on this issue. Voters must know how their district, state and national representatives have voted and will vote.Cast your vote in the midterms with the same sense of purpose and power shown in the protests. Do not lose your momentum. The National Rifle Association makes large donations to gain backing from elected officials, but in the end it is you young voters with your “passion and fury” who can defeat them.ALICE SALIGMAN, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Your otherwise excellent article ignores the victories already scored by the students. While it is true that the new budget bill “took no significant new steps on gun control,” it is not true that its only concessions were “some school safety measures and modest improvements to the background check system.”The bill also authorizes the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to conduct research on the causes of gun violence. Ending the ban on C.D.C. research is a significant step forward in understanding the problem more clearly so we can create more effective solutions.The students also had an astonishing victory when Florida, which has been a laboratory for N.R.A.-backed laws like Stand Your Ground, passed its first gun safety law in years.Grass-roots advocacy campaigns are marathon efforts that rarely see instant results. But these students have already scored impressive wins. Failing to acknowledge those wins undermines their hard work and risks contributing to a demoralizing sense of cynicism.ELISE NAKHNIKIAN, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Re “Rallies for 2nd Amendment Try to Have a Say, Too” (news article, March 25):I disagree with your characterization of the counterprotesters at Saturday’s March for Our Lives as “supporters of the Second Amendment.” People who oppose reasonable restrictions on gun ownership are not defending the Second Amendment; they are demanding an absolutist interpretation. No other right guaranteed by our Constitution comes without limits. Those of us who support firearm regulations are acting within the true spirit and the meaning of the Second Amendment.JOYCE DENN, WOODBURY, MINN.To the Editor:Even at 72 I can still be awed, mesmerized and more hopeful than ever before. Emotionally spent after watching hours of young people marching for their lives and for the lives of everyone, I realized that hope is ours because of them.The children will lead us? Yes, they did. It is their movement, their moment, their future. They’ve shown us how to come together, to be inclusive and to fight for change. I couldn’t be prouder of the bright, savvy young people around us.Now they’ve got the baton. They will vote, they will run, then they will lead. America is in good hands.PATRICIA WELLEREMMITSBURG, MD.