MINNEAPOLIS —  A timeline of the July 15, 2017, fatal shooting of Justine Damond, an unarmed Australian woman, by a Minneapolis police officer, and ensuing events:11:27 p.m. — Justine Damond calls 911 to report hearing sounds of distress from a girl or woman behind her house. She says it may be a rape. A dispatcher says officers should arrive soon.11:35 p.m. — Damond calls 911 again to ask why police haven't arrived yet. She gives the dispatcher the address again.11:41 p.m. — Officers Matthew Harrity and Mohamed Noor arrive and drive south down the alley behind Damond's house. Harrity, who is driving, is startled by a loud noise near his squad car. Damond approaches the driver's side window immediately afterward, and Noor fires his gun past Harrity, striking Damond through that window of the vehicle, according to Harrity in an interview with state investigators.11:42 p.m. — Radio report of one person down, starting CPR.11:50 p.m. — Radio report of police doing CPR for "last four minutes."11:51 p.m. — Damond is pronounced dead in the alley at the south end of her block. A medical examiner later says Damond was shot once in the abdomen.July 16 — Hundreds gather in Damond's southwest Minneapolis neighborhood to mourn her death. Mayor Betsy Hodges visits scene, says she is "heartsick" and "deeply disturbed" by shooting. State investigators say the officers involved in the shooting had not turned on their body cameras and squad car video didn't capture the shooting.July 17 — An autopsy shows Damond died of a single gunshot wound to the abdomen. Her fiancé Don Damond says the family has been given no information about how the shooting happened. The officer who shot Justine Damond is identified as Mohamed Noor, a Somali-American with less than two years of experience who became an officer after working in property management. In a statement from his attorney, Noor offers condolences to Damond's family.July 18 — State investigators say Noor declined to be interviewed. They say his partner, Matthew Harrity, told them Harrity was startled by a loud noise right before Damond approached the officers' SUV, and that Noor — in the passenger seat — shot her through the driver's-side window.July 20 — Police Chief Janee Harteau makes first remarks on shooting, says it "should not have happened" but defends Noor's training. Harteau also says the city is reviewing its policy on body cameras and wants them to be used more often.July 21 — Harteau resigns at Hodges' request after the mayor says she no longer has confidence in the chief. Hodges names Assistant Chief Medaria Arradondo to take over. At a news conference to discuss the change, Hodges is shouted down by protesters who say she should resign, too.Aug. 11 — Damond's family holds a public memorial service in Minneapolis.Aug. 28 — Hennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman says he expects to decide on charges by year's end.Sept. 12 — Authorities announce that the state Bureau of Criminal Investigation has handed the case over to Freeman's office.Nov. 18 — Council Member Jacob Frey defeats Hodges in the mayor's race. Much of the campaign focused on police-community relations.Dec. 13 — Freeman is caught on video saying he doesn't have enough evidence to charge Noor and blaming investigators "who haven't done their job."Dec. 28 — Freeman says he'll miss his self-imposed deadline of deciding on charges by year's end because he needs more time.Jan. 24, 2018 — Attorneys say Freeman convened a grand jury and subpoenaed other officers to compel them to tell what they know. Freeman says he still intends to make his own decision on charges.March 20 — Noor turns himself in to the Hennepin County Jail on charges of third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughterMarch 21 --- Noor makes first appearance in court. Bail is reduced from $500,000 to $400,000.