MINNEAPOLIS — The Minneapolis police officer who fatally shot an unarmed Australian woman last summer, an incident that led to protests and the ouster of the city’s police chief, was jailed Tuesday on charges of third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.The shooting of the woman, Justine Damond, by Officer Mohamed Noor on July 15 renewed questions about police conduct and training in a region that has seen a series of police shootings in recent years.“Officer Noor did not act reasonably,” Mike Freeman, the Hennepin County attorney, said at a news conference Tuesday afternoon, adding that the officer “abused his authority to use deadly force.”Thomas Plunkett, a lawyer for Officer Noor, said in a statement that his client should not have been charged. “The facts will show that Officer Noor acted as he has been trained, and consistent with established departmental policy,” Mr. Plunkett said.Lt. Bob Kroll, who leads the union that represents Minneapolis police officers, declined to comment on the specifics of the prosecution, but released a statement acknowledging “the tragic shooting of Justine Damond.”Ms. Damond, 40, a yoga and meditation instructor who was engaged to be married, had called 911 twice that July night to report what she feared was a sexual assault happening outside her home in an affluent part of Minneapolis. Officer Noor and his partner, Officer Matthew Harrity, arrived minutes later.The two officers were driving through an alley near Ms. Damond’s home with their emergency lights off, prosecutors said, when Officer Harrity reported being startled by a noise and a figure who appeared outside the car. Moments later, Officer Noor, the passenger in the police car, fired a shot through the cruiser’s open driver’s-side window, fatally striking Ms. Damond.Prosecutors said that Officer Harrity, who unholstered his gun but did not fire it, told a supervisor later that “we both got spooked.” Neither officer’s body camera was turned on when the shot was fired, and there is no known video of the shooting.Mr. Freeman said Officer Noor had no legitimate reason to shoot.“Justine was approaching the car unarmed. They couldn’t even tell whether it was a male or a female, an adult or a child,” Mr. Freeman said. “What is the threat that requires the use of deadly force? What was the serious crime that was going on?”Officer Noor was being held at the Hennepin County Jail on $500,000 bail, according to sheriff’s records. Those records show that he was booked late Tuesday morning after being arrested by sheriff’s deputies.In a statement released by their lawyer, Robert Bennett, members of Ms. Damond’s family applauded the charging decision and called it “one step toward justice for this iniquitous act”“We remain hopeful that a strong case will be presented by the prosecutor, backed by verified and detailed forensic evidence, and that this will lead to a conviction,” the family’s statement said. “No charges can bring our Justine back. However, justice demands accountability for those responsible for recklessly killing the fellow citizens they are sworn to protect, and today’s actions reflect that.”For months, the authorities released little information about what led to the gunfire, and Officer Noor declined to speak to investigators from the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, who were asked by the city to review the shooting. The state agency finished its investigation in mid-September and handed over its findings to Mr. Freeman’s office.Ms. Damond’s death happened a month after a police officer was acquitted of manslaughter in the fatal shooting of a motorist in nearby Falcon Heights. It renewed debate in the Minneapolis region about how officers use force and treat residents. Protesters marched, demanded policy changes and at one point shouted over the mayor at the time, Betsy Hodges, during a news conference.For years, activists in Minnesota have protested police shootings, including many high-profile cases in which black men were killed. Some of the same activists demonstrated after the shooting of Ms. Damond, who was white, and suggested that her death might galvanize some white people who had previously been silent about police misconduct.Officer Noor, a member of the area’s large Somali immigrant community, began patrolling the district in southwest Minneapolis 14 months before the shooting. He was the first Somali officer to be stationed in that area, and was seen as a cultural bridge to a community that has at times had tensions with the police.After the shooting, Ms. Hodges moved quickly to dismiss the Minneapolis police chief, Janee Harteau, and the police department announced new rules requiring body cameras to be turned on in more situations.Ms. Harteau’s successor, Chief Medaria Arradondo, said in a statement that Tuesday was Officer Noor’s last day on the police force.“I will learn from this tragedy, and I will redouble our department’s efforts to build trust,” Chief Arradondo said.Ms. Hodges, who faced criticism for her handling of police shootings, was defeated for re-election in November and left office in January. Don Damond, Ms. Damond’s fiancé, endorsed the winning mayoral candidate, Jacob Frey, and said that Ms. Hodges’s efforts to improve the Police Department “were too little, too late.”Activists demanded the swift filing of criminal charges against Officer Noor, but Mr. Freeman resisted the requests, saying he needed to wait for the findings of the investigation. He was videotaped at a labor union gathering in December saying that Officer Harrity’s statement to investigators had been unhelpful, and that he did not yet have enough information to make a charging decision.“I’ve got to have the evidence, and I don’t have it yet,” Mr. Freeman said in the video.Prosecutors often face difficulty securing convictions against police officers involved in shootings. In the Falcon Heights case, Officer Jeronimo Yanez was acquitted in June by jurors in a neighboring county for the fatal 2016 shooting of Philando Castile. Officers in Oklahoma, Wisconsin and Missouri were acquitted last year in trials over fatal shootings.Minneapolis police records released after the shooting showed that Officer Noor had been the subject of three citizen complaints during his short career. Details about the incidents were not released. A day before the shooting of Ms. Damond, a lawsuit accusing Officer Noor and two colleagues of misconduct was filed in federal court.Ms. Damond’s death added to a longstanding, tense debate over police conduct in Minnesota, where the shooting of Mr. Castile in Falcon Heights prompted large protests, and where demonstrators in Minneapolis camped for days outside a police station in 2015 after an officer shot and killed Jamar Clark, an unarmed black man.