WASHINGTON — One of the most powerful moments during President Trump’s meeting with survivors and relatives of the Florida school shooting this week came when a student pleaded with the president to do what Australia did after a similar tragedy.
As it happened, Mr. Trump had an opportunity on Friday to get a firsthand report on Australia’s crackdown on guns when he hosted the country’s prime minister at the White House. But both men quickly discounted any comparisons, saying their nations are too different.
“It’s a completely different context, historically, legally and so forth,” Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said when asked about his country’s example during a news conference. “We are very satisfied with our laws,” he added. “But we certainly don’t presume to provide policy or political advice on that matter here. You have an amendment to your Constitution that deals with gun ownership. You have a very, very different history.”
Standing beside him in the East Room of the White House, Mr. Trump repeated the point. “They’re very different countries with very different sets of problems,” said the president, who has embraced a couple of modest new gun restrictions since the Florida shooting, even as he promotes the idea of arming trained teachers. “But I think we’re well on the way to solving that horrible problem that happens far too often in the United States.”
Mr. Turnbull’s visit had been in the works long before the mass shooting that left 17 dead in Parkland, Fla., and was already freighted with a complicated history between the two men for other reasons. But the timing threw a spotlight on a case study that has roiled the gun control debate here in the United States.
Australia embarked on one of the world’s most expansive efforts to rid a society of gun violence after a mass shooting in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur on April 28, 1996, left 35 dead and many other injured. At that time, it was Australia’s 13th mass shooting in less than two decades and the deadliest such incident to date in the Western world. Even in the United States since then, only two episodes have eclipsed that death toll, the massacres in an Orlando gay nightclub in 2016 and at a Las Vegas concert last year.
In response to the 1996 shooting, John Howard, then Australia’s conservative prime minister, moved quickly, introducing a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established.
Semiautomatic rifles, like the one used at Port Arthur in 1996 and in Parkland last week, were severely restricted, and Australia engaged in a buyback program that took more than 650,000 firearms off the streets and generated attention around the world.
Gun control advocates in the United States regularly point to Australia when the other side says that new laws would not make a difference. President Barack Obama cited Australia as a model after a shooting in Oregon in 2015 and Hillary Clinton, running to succeed him against Mr. Trump, said the Australian approach was “worth considering.”
That was a theme picked up by Sam Zeif, 18, a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, who was among the survivors of last week’s shooting to visit the White House on Wednesday.
“In Australia, there was a shooting at a school in 1999,” he told Mr. Trump, getting the date slightly off and mistaking the setting, which was actually a tourist site not a school. “And you know, after that, they took a lot of ideas, they put legislation together and they stopped it. Can anyone here guess how many shootings there have been in the schools since then in Australia? Zero. We need to do something.”
The National Rifle Association has long pushed back against the Australia model, citing studies that it says do not prove that the restrictions have been effective. While it is true that Australia has not seen a mass shooting comparable to Port Arthur or Parkland since 1996, the N.R.A. argues that such episodes are rare enough that it would be statistically incorrect for gun control supporters to draw a cause-and-effect conclusion.
“With such little evidence supporting their doctrines, these fanatics should spare Americans the proselytizing,” Chris W. Cox, a top N.R.A. lobbyist, wrote in November. “Even more to the point, the ongoing destruction of personal freedom in Australia stands as a stark and constant reminder of just how far gun control extremists are willing to go in their quest to disarm law-abiding citizens.”
Polls show more than 90 percent support in Australia for the two-decades-old gun regime, but it has also been gradually loosening its laws in recent years and gun sales are increasing. Those who own guns own more guns — in some cases, 100 or more. Semiautomatic handgun sales, which are not as regulated as rifles, have skyrocketed.
Data from GunPolicy.org, a nonpartisan clearinghouse for firearm policy data, shows that from 1988 to 2015, Australians surrendered roughly 1.1 million guns in various buybacks — and bought roughly 1 million new ones.
Experts have debated the impact of Australia’s program for years. Studies have shown that the combined policies enacted after the 1996 tragedy reduced mass shootings and suicides, with the largest declines in states that turned over the most weapons. There has been only one case of at least four people shot to death in Australia since 1996, a father who killed his wife and three children before killing himself in 2014.
What the United States can learn from Australia, some experts said, is that guns should be viewed not just as the cause of mass killings, but also as a public health issue that leads to death in other ways.
“The gun is to gun violence as the mosquito is to malaria,” said Philip Alpers, a University of Sydney professor and founding director of GunPolicy.org. “It’s the agent of harm and it needs to be treated in the same way it would be treat in any other public health campaign.”
But, he said, Australia’s sharp shift in direction would be very hard for the United States to match. Then and now, the politics and the countries are more different than alike.
Mr. Howard had just won a landslide victory when he pushed gun control through parliament and, experts noted, Australia is a much smaller country with a population that tends to put more faith in government regulation.
“If the question is: ‘Would what Australia did work in the United States?’ the answer is no,” Mr. Alpers said. “What Australia did was a confiscation of private property under the threat of jail time, compensated or not. That wouldn’t wash in the United States.”
“The scale also wouldn’t wash in the United States,” he added. “Australia is estimated to have confiscated nearly a third of its firearms — and that would entail destroying 90 million firearms in the United States.”
Gun control advocates said that while Australia deserves to be seen as a model, it would be a mistake to oversimplify the country’s success or assume that gun violence can be forever erased.
“Australian politicians have been riding on the coattails of John Howard and letting the gains slip away,” said Samantha Lee, chair of Gun Control Australia.
