WASHINGTON — President Trump on Thursday boasted, incorrectly, that his State of the Union address drew the highest number of viewers in history. He was off by millions of people.
Mr. Trump’s claim that his address was “the highest number in history,” is wrong because it ranks ninth out of the annual addresses delivered by presidents since 1993.
President Barack Obama’s first State of the Union speech in 2010 beat Mr. Trump’s by about 2 million, with some 48 million viewers.
Even factoring in online streams, Mr. Trump’s address would not outrank Mr. Obama’s. It is impossible to do a conclusive tally, but the White House’s official stream of Mr. Trump’s address on YouTube has drawn roughly 51,000 views while Mr. Obama’s 2010 address has been viewed 524,000 times.
But wait, there’s more. According to the Nielsen Company’s ratings, President George W. Bush’s addresses in 2002 and 2003 drew even more viewers than Mr. Trump and Mr. Obama, topping off at 51.8 million and 62.1 million; and President Bill Clinton’s addresses in 1994 and 1998 were viewed by 45.8 million and 53 million people
Mr. Trump’s own joint address to Congress — which takes the place of a traditional State of the Union address in a president’s first year in office — drew a larger audience than his speech this year, at 47.7 million. Factoring in the joint addresses, Mr. Obama’s 2009 joint address drew 52.4 million viewers and Mr. Clinton’s 1993 speech tops the rankings with an audience of 66.9 million television viewers.
A former reality television star, Mr. Trump regularly grades himself and others in ratings.
Here is a look at past instances when the president’s accounts of his ratings have been off.
During his first full day in office, Mr. Trump grossly overestimated the size of his inauguration crowd, saying that up to 1.5 million people attended, when, in fact, aerial pictures showed it was much less.
His press secretary at the time, Sean Spicer, doubled down on Mr. Trump’s assertion and said the president drew “the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration.” Photographs of Mr. Obama’s inauguration in 2009 disproved that claim, as well.
In May, Mr. Trump said that when he appeared on the CBS program “The Late Show,” the broadcast had its highest ratings ever. But he was off by a million or so viewers on that, too. The episode that aired when Mr. Trump was a guest in September 2015 was watched by 4.6 million people, whereas the first “Late Show” that Stephen Colbert hosted drew 6.6 million viewers, according to a CNN report.
In late December, Mr. Trump said his “so-called low approval rating” was approximately the same as Mr. Obama’s at the same point in that presidency. Real Clear Politics research, however, shows that Mr. Obama’s average approval rating across major polls was about 10 points higher than Mr. Trump’s in the December of his first year in office.
Just last month, Mr. Trump falsely claimed that his approval rating among black Americans had doubled (it has actually declined). In July, he also tweeted that his 40 percent approval rating, as recorded by an ABC/Washington Post poll, was “not bad” at this point in his presidency. The same poll shows that Mr. Trump’s approval rating at six months was the lowest recorded since World War II.
