To the Editor:Re “Repeal the Second Amendment” (Op-Ed, March 28):The retired justice John Paul Stevens is right to highlight the Second Amendment’s role in the gun debate, including the fact that it is sometimes deployed as a “propaganda weapon” against gun regulation. It is also important to recognize that, as a matter of law, the Second Amendment is perfectly consistent with gun regulation.Justice Antonin Scalia’s majority opinion in District of Columbia v. Heller (from which Justice Stevens dissented) emphasized that “the Second Amendment right is not unlimited.” He enumerated a wide range of “presumptively lawful” gun regulations, including bans on possession by felons and the mentally ill, dangerous and unusual weapons, and the carrying of weapons in sensitive places.In more than 1,000 Second Amendment cases in the decade since Heller, courts have fleshed out those categories. They have struck down stringent (and extremely rare) laws like bans on public carry. And they have upheld the vast majority of reasonable gun laws.People sometimes say they oppose gun regulation because they support the Second Amendment, or vice versa. The gun debate is difficult enough without that false dichotomy.JOSEPH BLOCHER, DURHAM, N.C.The writer is a professor at Duke University School of Law.To the Editor:This Op-Ed article is precisely why more people don’t support gun control. Articles like this imply that anyone who wants sensible restrictions to prevent mentally ill teenagers from shooting up schools also wants to repeal the Second Amendment.John Paul Stevens does not speak for me or scores of other people who support both gun rights and responsible gun sales. He is holding the gun control movement back, not pushing it forward.SARYTA RODRIGUEZ, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Rather than subject the country to a prolonged, deeply divisive and likely unsuccessful campaign to repeal the Second Amendment, would it not be preferable to revise its language so as to reflect contemporary social concerns (such as gun violence) while preserving the time-honored right to bear arms for legitimate purposes?This would require us to agree on three main points: 1) gun ownership is a central part of American life; 2) all but a tiny minority of gun owners use them safely and responsibly; and 3) any restrictions on access to, as well as ownership or use of, firearms should apply only to those who might harm others (and themselves) with these weapons.A revised Second Amendment could read as follows: “The right to bear arms for hunting, sport and recreation being a cherished and time-honored tradition, the exercise of this right by responsible persons for these purposes shall not be infringed.”JOHN V.H. DIPPEL SALISBURY, CONN.To the Editor:John Paul Stevens has finally declared out loud what gun advocates have desperately tried to avoid: that the Second Amendment is obsolete. The National Rifle Association shouts that our freedoms are at risk, while Rick Santorum, a former senator, recommended that student protesters stop exercising their First Amendment rights and instead learn CPR.While many of us waste time feeling outraged over the controversial statements, we lose sight of the real goal — eliminating an amendment written by founding fathers whom history has judged to be wrong about several important issues.Recent protests provide hope that the younger generation will prioritize strict gun regulations as they mature into positions of greater influence. Meanwhile, I fear for the generation of children who have to go to school while the adults of today bask in inaction.MARCO STARGERBRIDGEWATER, N.J.To the Editor:Three cheers for John Paul Stevens! The Second Amendment was intended to equip a militia, but we haven’t had one in centuries. It is as quaint as the Third Amendment, about quartering of soldiers. How many Americans are concerned about discovering an uninvited soldier in their living room?ARMAND W. LORANGERBEDFORD, N.Y.