This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.“My kids cried for three weeks, every class, every day,” said Alexandra Price, an English teacher from Western High School in Davie, Fla., who spoke to the two of us at Saturday’s march in Washington. Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, she said, is “like our sister school. We play them in sports.” Price wants to see the minimum age to buy a gun raised to 21, and she also wants to see bump stocks banned.Michaela Kirvan, a senior who helped organize a walkout at her all-girls Catholic high school in Washington, said that she sees gun control as a pro-life issue. “Saying that you’re pro-life means protecting life through all of its forms and all of its stages,” she said. “It’s a living, breathing human being that’s being targeted.”Sharon Burns is a former Army combat medic from North Carolina whose 22-year-old son committed suicide in 2009 with a gun she owned. She understands that the Second Amendment is enshrined in the Constitution but, as she points out, it includes the word, regulated. “Everybody needs to go through a background check.”Mark Soukup, a 61-year-old former member of the National Rifle Association from Gap Mills, W. Va., uses a gun to hunt. “Guns do have a place, but they’re efficient killing machines,” Soukup told us. “I shouldn’t be able to use my guns until I’ve passed some kind of test that proves I’m a responsible gun owner. I’m plenty willing to do that. Whatever it takes, really, to save people’s lives.”Katie Graham is a high school senior from Columbus, Ohio, whose 17-year-old friend was shot and killed last year. “I’ve never been to any kind of rally or march before,” Graham said. “If we want change, we have to make it happen. And this is us making it happen.”Keyona Smith, a junior at Fayetteville State University in North Carolina, who wore a Black Lives Matter button to the march, said simply: “I just want a solution. Whatever it takes to get a solution.”If you haven’t read this op-ed in The Times by Steve Israel, a former member of Congress, please do. He makes a crucial point: The solution that the marchers want almost certainly depends on winning elections.The college-graduation gap. “Even as the college-attendance gap between rich and poor has shrunk, the gap in the number of rich and poor college graduates has grown. That shouldn’t be happening.” There’s more — including a chart that may tell the story better than any words can — here.This column is based on a new study, which unlike some others focuses on wealth (an individual’s assets minus debts) rather than income. It’s important to look at both, but a lot of social-science research ends up focusing on income, because it’s often easier to study.