Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Tens of thousands of demonstrators across California marched in solidarity with national protests for gun control on Saturday, a sea of people awash in homemade signs, blaring music and anti-gun chants. Inspired by the students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., Californians from San Diego to San Luis Obispo to Oakland showed their support.In Los Angeles, more than 30,000 people marched through downtown, according to an estimate by City Hall.Martha Jimenez-Ito, a teacher from Ventura County, said she attended the rally because she was tired of her young students feeling unsafe at school every time there’s a new shooting. She held a handwritten poster that said, “I will not stay quiet or accept unsafe schools.” She said she believed the tide was turning on gun legislation, despite little previous action. In the background, “Changes” by Tupac Shakur blasted over loudspeakers.Nearby, a young girl stood beside her pregnant mother and held an unadorned cardboard sign that simply asked, “Am I next?”Linda Wang, 39, said she was convinced there would be gun reform after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., and was disappointed nothing happened. Originally from Taiwan, Ms. Wang said people outside the United States think gun violence in the country is “ridiculous.”“There are shootings every day here,” said Ms. Wang, who has lived in the United States for 15 years. “We have to do something in America. This is not right.”Omi Ford, 19, said she believed the large crowds emphasized how much energy is behind the gun control push this time around.“I’m here to show that the Parkland students are not alone in this, in their thinking about this, even though some people act like they are,” said Ms. Ford, an acting student at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy in Los Angeles.The city’s mayor, Eric M. Garcetti, praised activists for their work and urged students to remain involved. Mr. Garcetti said President Trump had failed to show leadership on the issue despite promises after the Parkland shooting.“He said we shouldn’t be scared of the gun lobby and yet he buckles every time they blow a whistle for him,” he said.Nearby, a group of about 10 counterprotesters held up signs to support the Second Amendment, protected by police tape. More than a dozen police officers stood between the two camps.John Turano, 60, who wore American flag-imprinted shorts, said he decided to counterprotest in order to support the Second Amendment and “my president, Trump.” He said he did not own guns but thought efforts to restrict gun ownership were too extreme.He paused when asked what he thought about the marchers.“When you feel something passionately, and you’re in America, you’re not restricted in what you feel or what you say,” he said.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• Personal care aides who work with older people are increasingly foreign-born workers, many of whom come to the United States through family-based immigration. [The New York Times]• This video, through body cam and helicopter footage, reconstructs how Stephon Clark was killed by the Sacramento police in his backyard. Officers fired 20 times at him. [The New York Times]• Al Sharpton said he planned to attend the funeral for Mr. Clark. [The Sacramento Bee]• Uber was becoming more aggressive with its self-driving car research before a fatal crash in Arizona, even as the technology faltered. [The New York Times]• Though the state’s homeless population has risen by 16 percent in two years, money allocated to help is going unspent. [The Los Angeles Times]• Hundreds of Irvine residents gathered to protest a plan to move homeless people into a tent city near the Orange County Great Park. [O.C. Register]• A woman filed a lawsuit against the Sacramento Police Department accusing an officer of sexually assaulting her during an arrest. [The Sacramento Bee]• Apple is building a new 128,000-square-foot headquarters for its entertainment division in Culver City. [The New York Times]• A bill in the State Senate would increase development that could transform neighborhoods in Los Angeles. [The Los Angeles Times]• The potential effects of S.B. 827, the law that would lead to more dense housing near public transit hubs, aren’t just hype. [CALMatters]• The California courts paid more than half a million dollars since 2010 to resolve sexual harassment suits against judges and staff. [Tribune News Service]L.A. Cycle Tours is organizing a nine-mile taco tour around downtown Los Angeles on Tuesday.The San Francisco Art Institute will hold its public opening for its new Philippe Rahm exhibition on Thursday.A live tribute concert on Friday at LIT Nightclub in Los Angeles will commemorate the Mexican-American singer Selena Quintanilla Pérez for the anniversary of her death.Beyond Baroque in Los Angeles is hosting its second annual L.A. Punk Film Festival on Friday.The third annual San Diego Wine Festival, “Uncorked,” is Saturday at Embarcadero Marina Park North.Angelenos gathered Sunday evening at Stories Bookstore and Cafe in Echo Park for the fourth anniversary installation of the “BUSted” story series. The tales centered on a common theme: getting around in Los Angeles without a car. The stories all took place on buses, trains, bicycles and sidewalks around the city.The stories ranged from mundane to outrageous to poignant. One man, who has a slight visual impairment, described “seeing the light go out in a woman’s eyes” when he explained he didn’t have a car. (“It’s O.K., I live a full life.”) Another talked about meeting people of all walks of life through a running club, including homeless people, former gang members and public defenders. In between folk songs, a singer recalled his experience getting a D.U.I.The faces in the audience — huddled in the bookstore’s patio, beneath Edison bulbs and a canopy — were young and old, bushy and clean-shaven, of all shades. The show started just a little late. “I’m going to give the performers an opportunity to get here before we get started,” the organizer told the audience. “They’re all on the bus, so sometimes it takes a little bit longer than your typical guest.”California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.