SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  The Latest on the fatal shooting of an unarmed man in Sacramento, California (all times local):8:10 p.m.The Sacramento Kings say there will be a heavy police presence to keep protesters from blocking fans from entering the team's arena for a third time.Demonstrators upset by the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man by police in California's capital earlier this month twice prevented thousands of fans from entering Golden 1 Center. Team members and owners supported the protest at another game, with members donning warm-up T-shirts honoring 22-year-old Stephon Clark.His funeral is Thursday at a Sacramento church.The team warned Wednesday night that they and Sacramento police are committed to avoiding another disruption for fans at Thursday night's game with the Indiana Pacers.That will include a significant police presence around the arena, with security and ticket checks at the outskirts of the team's property.___4:35 p.m.The brother of police shooting victim Stephon Clark says he doesn't want the media outside the wake.Stevante Clark approached reporters set up outside the Bayside of South Sacramento church where the wake is being held, yelling and screaming for them to leave and saying they don't care about his family. He was picked up and carried into the church by a man.Several minutes later Clark came back outside and was quickly carried away as he moved to approach reporters again.A national spotlight has been on Clark's family since his March 18 shooting by two Sacramento police officers.Stevante Clark's confrontation with reporters came a day after he disrupted a city council meeting, jumping on the platform and chanting his brother's name at Mayor Darrell Steinberg.Members of the media were permitted to set up outside the public wake.__2:30 p.m.Community members are gathering to mourn 22-year-old Stephon Clark, who was killed by police, during a public wake at a south Sacramento church.Clark was shot by police who were responding to a call about someone breaking car windows on March 18. He was unarmed.Some attendees wore black shirts calling for justice. One woman held up a clenched fist as she exited the church while others hugged and cried.Cynthia Brown brought her 10- and 15-year-old grandsons, who she said could have been in Clark's shoes. She says the two officers who shot Clark should be charged and that police need to stop assuming a black man is a "thug."She says, "this feels like the '60s."__1 a.m.Relatives of an unarmed black man killed by Sacramento police say they're skeptical of a promised investigation into the shooting.Twenty-two-year-old Stephon Clark was shot by two Sacramento police officers responding to a report of someone breaking car windows March 18. Police say they thought he was holding a gun. It was a cellphone.The shooting has sparked more than a week of protests. Clark's wake is planned for Wednesday.Clark's uncle, Curtis Gordon, told The Associated Press on Tuesday that the family is skeptical that the killing will be properly investigated.The California attorney general's office on Tuesday joined the investigation. Police Chief Daniel Hahn says he hopes that will bring transparency to the probe.