(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russian diplomats from the U.S., and European nations quickly followed suit. Together, the moves constituted a broad swipe at Russia’s diplomatic capabilities, and possibly its ability to conduct spying operations.The president’s decision was the latest action in a long history of espionage feuds between Washington and Moscow._____2. Publicly, President Trump has remained quiet about Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film star whose unapologetic “60 Minutes” interview on Sunday detailed their alleged sexual encounters. Privately, he has railed against her, insisting that she was not telling the truth.Melania Trump, the first lady, has also remained silent. “She’s focusing on being a mother,” her spokeswoman said.Meanwhile, as the special counsel investigation enters critical phases, the president’s personal legal team has shrunk to essentially one person. Mr. Trump decided not to hire two lawyers who were announced as additions just last week._____3. Student-led demonstrations against gun violence on Saturday represented triumphs of youthful energy, while adults lent organizational support. The fervor indicated gun control could play a major role in the 2018 midterm elections, with Republicans on the defensive.If Democrats hope to regain control of the House in 2018, they need to flip 24 Republican seats — and the math currently favors Democrats. Here’s a look at what to expect in the campaigns ahead._____4. Bailey Davis, a cheerleader for the New Orleans Saints, was fired for posting a photo of herself in a one-piece outfit on her private Instagram account.In a discrimination complaint, she said the team places unreasonable rules on its female cheerleaders to protect them from male players. Cheerleaders must block all N.F.L. players on social media, and leave restaurants if a player arrives during their meal.It puts the onus on the women to fend off the men, while the players have no such restrictions._____5. President Trump secured his first major trade deal. The U.S. and South Korea agreed to renegotiate their trade pact, with Seoul exempted from tariffs on steel and aluminum in exchange for reducing its steel exports and opening its market to American cars.The deal looked like early vindication of the White House’s efforts to use the tariffs as a bargaining chip. Above, South Korea’s trade minister, Kim Hyon-chong._____6. Officials at a Kansas park knew a 170-foot-tall water slide that killed a 10-year-old boy was unsafe but rushed to build it anyway, according to an indictment unsealed in court last week.The slide, which required riders to ascend 264 steps, skirted basic engineering standards, the authorities said. The park and its former operations director were charged with 20 criminal counts, including involuntary manslaughter._____7. A cricket scandal has shocked Australia. Steve Smith, the national team’s captain and one of its greatest players ever, admitted that he concocted a plan to illegally tamper with the ball during a series in South Africa, outraging fans of a sport that has always professed some moral sanctimony.Meanwhile, baseball’s opening day is coming up this week. Get ready with previews of the National League and the American League._____8. Low fat? Low carbohydrates? Studies suggest the best diet is whichever one you can stick to.If you’re seeking self-improvement, you might consider why it’s so hard to hear negative feedback. Trusting that everyone is acting in good faith might be key to making it easier._____9. It’s not just nostalgia animating ABC’s reboot of “Roseanne,” which debuts on Tuesday and is one of the few shows on TV right now about working-class families. But you can hear the voice of the original series, even if it can feel a bit dated.Roseanne Barr and John Goodman return as Roseanne and Dan Conner, replacing the perils of 30-somethings with the perils of 60-somethings whose lives didn’t quite work out._____10. Finally, if you’re in love, congratulations. We’re all happy for you.But your Instagram friends might not appreciate your weekly #whyiloveher posts, or the performative #myboyfriendisbetterthanyours claims. In fact, they might be vomiting at them.Our Op-Ed writer, Krista Burton, says you should feel free to keep posting those cute selfies — just maybe do it moderation.Thanks for joining us, beloved reader, and we hope you have a tremendous week.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.