After big wins at Monday night’s Gotham Awards, “Get Out,” “Lady Bird” and “Call Me by Your Name” picked up more awards season momentum on Tuesday, when the National Board of Review announced its top movies and performances of the year.
But it was “The Post,” the coming Steven Spielberg film about The Washington Post’s role in publishing the Pentagon Papers, that collected the top prizes: best picture, along with best actor and actress for Tom Hanks and Meryl Streep.
Greta Gerwig also won big, landing best director for her film “Lady Bird,” which also garnered a supporting actress award for Laurie Metcalfe.
“Call Me’s” young star, Timothée Chalamet, won the board’s breakthrough performance award – after collecting the same prize the night before at the Gothams – and Jordan Peele won best directorial debut for “Get Out,” having won the same prize at the Gothams, too. “Get Out” also won the board’s best ensemble award.
And Willem Dafoe was named best supporting actor for the “The Florida Project,” after losing best actor at the Gothams to James Franco (of “The Disaster Artist”). Pixar’s “Coco” won best animated film, and the Jane Goodall biopic “Jane” landed best documentary.
Another stop on the seasonal circuit, the National Board of Review prizes are loosely predictive of Academy Award nominees and winners, and yet another indicator of where the winds are blowing. Last year, board winners Casey Affleck and Kenneth Lonergan went on to nab Oscars; the board also named ”O.J.: Made in America” best documentary and “The Salesman” best foreign-language film, foreshadowing those Oscar wins as well.
The NBR Awards Gala will be held Jan. 9 at Cipriani 42nd Street.
Here is the full list of winners:
Best Film: “The Post”
Best Director: Greta Gerwig, “Lady Bird”
Best Actor: Tom Hanks, “The Post”
Best Actress: Meryl Streep, “The Post”
Best Supporting Actor: Willem Dafoe, “The Florida Project”
Best Supporting Actress: Laurie Metcalf, “Lady Bird”
Best Original Screenplay: Paul Thomas Anderson, “Phantom Thread”
Best Adapted Screenplay: Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber, “The Disaster Artist”
Best Animated Feature: “Coco”
Breakthrough Performance: Timothée Chalamet, “Call Me by Your Name”
Best Directorial Debut: Jordan Peele, “Get Out”
Best Foreign Language Film: “Foxtrot” (from Israel)
Best Documentary: “Jane”
Best Ensemble: “Get Out”
Spotlight Award: “Wonder Woman,” Patty Jenkins and Gal Gadot
NBR Freedom of Expression Award: “First They Killed My Father”
NBR Freedom of Expression Award: “Let It Fall: Los Angeles 1982-1992”
Top Films
“Baby Driver”
“Call Me by Your Name”
“The Disaster Artist”
“Downsizing”
“Dunkirk”
“The Florida Project”
“Get Out”
“Lady Bird”
“Logan”
“Phantom Thread”
Top 5 Foreign Language Films 
“A Fantastic Woman”
“Frantz”
“Loveless”
“Summer 1993”
“The Square”
Top 5 Documentaries 
“Abacus: Small Enough to Jail”
“Brimstone & Glory”
“Eric Clapton: Life in 12 bars”
“Faces Places”
“Hell on Earth: The Fall of Syria and the Rise of Isis”
Top 10 Independent Films 
“Beatriz at Dinner”
“Brigsby Bear”
“A Ghost Story”
“Lady Macbeth”
“Logan Lucky”
“Loving Vincent”
“Menashe”
“Norman: The moderate Rise and Tragic Fall of a New York Fixer”
“Patti Cake$”
“Wind River”
