“The Greatest Showman” continues to prove the critics and experts wrong: The soundtrack to the P. T. Barnum movie musical just hit No. 1 in Britain for the 10th week in a row, only the second album (after Adele’s “21”) to do so there. And at the North American box office, the film is at $169 million and counting, making it the fourth-top-grossing live-action musical ever, behind “Beauty and the Beast,” “Grease” and “Chicago.”
The movie was released in December to largely mediocre reviews, including one in The Times. When it seemed clear in February that it was becoming a word-of-mouth hit, I asked fans to tell me what film journalists had missed, and the response was overwhelming. People singled out the story of outsiders finding a home at the circus, the hummable songs that the whole family could sing, and Hugh Jackman’s all-in performance as Barnum.
How the film so far surpassed expectations was the topic when Mr. Jackman and the film’s songwriting team, Benj Pasek and Justin Paul, took part in a Facebook Live session with me on Monday.
Mr. Jackman, who at least until now was probably best known for his role as Wolverine in the “X-Men” movies, said that he was getting the best reviews of his life from friends and family. “Very good friends of mine will come up almost in a way that is like a backhanded compliment, like, ‘Finally you’ve done a great movie. This is by far the best movie, like by far!’”
The songwriters acknowledged that the film wasn’t a “cool” discovery for critics. But Mr. Paul added, “It does feel satisfying to have created something that everyone can come together on.”
And Mr. Pasek noted, “‘The Greatest Showman’ really is not the world as it is but the world as we want it to be. It’s really optimistic, some might say corny, but I say sort of full of heart.”
The men also answered reader questions about the most difficult moments in production and about their favorite songs, though they were naturally reluctant to commit.
You can see a clip from the talk above, or watch the full conversation here.
