Our guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
THE EYES OF WILLIAM KLEIN at the Quad Cinema (through March 13). The Quad celebrates the impending 90th birthday of the photographer and filmmaker William Klein, who has worked in a range of modes — documentaries, satires and portraits of the fashion world. He parodied that last milieu in “Who Are You, Polly Maggoo?,” screening on Friday and accompanied by the short “Broadway by Light,” in which the lights of Times Square seem to dance to the music of Maurice Le Roux. His documentaries include biographical chronicles of Muhammad Ali (“Muhammad Ali, the Greatest,” showing on Saturday and Tuesday) and Eldridge and Kathleen Cleaver (“Eldridge Cleaver, Black Panther,” on Saturday and Sunday).212-255-2243, quadcinema.com
‘POLICE STORY’ at the Metrograph (March 9-18). Jackie Chan directed himself — and, more important, performed his own stunts and martial arts — in the first installment of his long-running Hong Kong cop series. Reviewing the film at the New York Film Festival in 1987, Vincent Canby didn’t get the appeal, writing that “‘Police Story’ is of principal interest as a souvenir of another culture.” That appraisal hasn’t stood the test of time: This new digital restoration shows that Mr. Chan is peerless when it comes to using an umbrella to latch on to the outside of a moving bus or sliding through multiple stories of glass and wire lights in a shopping mall because taking the escalators would be too slow.212-660-0312, metrograph.com
RENDEZ-VOUS WITH FRENCH CINEMA at the Film Society of Lincoln Center (through March 18). A serious hunger for French movies, or even a hankering for an aperitif, is the only prerequisite for attending the Film Society’s annual banquet of recent Gallic cinema. The offerings include a Flaubert-alluding, black-and-white portrait of a young filmmaker (Jean-Paul Civeyrac’s “A Paris Education,” showing on Monday); a critique of sexism in the French corporate world (Tonie Marshall’s “Number One,” with Emmanuelle Devos competing to lead a utility company, screening on Saturday and March 17); multiple World War I movies (like “The Guardians,” showing on March 16, from the “Of Gods and Men” director Xavier Beauvois); and even some experimental projects that the French might call outré. In “Jeannette, the Childhood of Joan of Arc” (on Friday and Tuesday), Bruno Dumont (“Hadewijch”) cuts loose with a rock opera about the saint in her youth. Eugène Green’s “Waiting for the Barbarians” (on Tuesday and March 16) was made as part of a workshop.212-875-5601, filmlinc.org
