“Do you think this will change things?” More than one person has asked me that question over the past few months. What they — what so many of us — want to know is whether the allegations of sexual abuse and harassment against some of the biggest men in the entertainment industry will have lasting repercussions. Invariably, I say yes, though with hesitation. I yearn to believe that both these accusations and the anger that’s surged in their wake will make a difference. But I wonder how this anger can be directed to effect real change, specifically in an institution that’s been as historically rigged against women as the American movie industry. Because anger alone isn’t enough.
What now? Sexual predators can be fired; assaulters presumably punished. These measures may bring relief and perhaps justice to victims, and they may scare abusers from doing more harm. But we are talking about the movie business, an industry that has systematically exploited some women while shutting others out of positions of power. Integrating more women into this male-dominated sphere may not automatically right the balance. At the same time, we know that the board of the Weinstein Company was all male, and John Lasseter, now on leave from Pixar (for undisclosed “missteps”), has presided over a company that produces overwhelmingly male-driven stories.
Until this year, the industry’s biggest scandal in recent memory had been the 2014 Sony hack. Memo by memo, the disclosures peeled away some of the institutionalized thinking that helps perpetuate “the big lie” of women’s inferiority, as the film critic Molly Haskell put it in her 1974 book, “From Reverence to Rape: The Treatment of Women in the Movies.” The Sony hack revealed pay disparities between female and male performers (and male and female executives), and suggested that women were not even discussed for prime directing gigs. (None seem to have been considered for “Ghostbusters.”) At the time, Amy Pascal was the co-chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment and ran Sony Pictures, but, then, there have been female chiefs of major Hollywood studios since 1987 when Dawn Steel became the first.
In July 2014, months before the Sony hack, I interviewed Ms. Pascal. (She was fired in 2015.) Several weeks later, I also interviewed Hannah Minghella, a Sony executive who, the hack would reveal, was being paid considerably less than a male colleague with the same title. Each woman expressed concern about female directors. Ms. Minghella was especially thoughtful and articulate. “I don’t think there is a deliberate or conscious action to prevent women from becoming filmmakers,” Ms. Minghella told me. “But I think it’s going to require deliberate and conscious action to change it because good intentions for 30 years or more now have done nothing to change the numbers.”
Ms. Minghella was right about good intentions, which some movie people have plenty of. The discrimination in the entertainment industry isn’t about oversight or a matter of one man giving another a job. It is about systemic bias, some of which can be traced back to the old studio days. From roughly the late 1920s to the mid-1960s, only two women directed for the big studios. And while the studios tended to treat all actors like chattel (some more prized than others), women were treated especially harshly because the same sexism outside the industry can be as unforgiving inside it. We know some of the victims. We also know the immortal female stars who helped build the industry.
In her book, Ms. Haskell brilliantly articulated the contradictions that haunt the movies, with their dispiriting truths and transporting fictions. And she wrote of the contradictions that also haunt us: “Through the myths of subjection and sacrifice that were its fictional currency and the machinations of its moguls in the front offices, the film industry maneuvered to keep women in their place; and yet these very myths and this machinery catapulted women into spheres of power beyond the wildest dreams of most of their sex.” Moguls like Louis B. Mayer perpetuated the big lie, but stars like Bette Davis also set us free.
I’ve always known that, even when an older woman blew my young teenage mind by saying she didn’t like Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers movies because she thought they were sexist. I knew what sexism was; the wonderful feminist teachers at my all-girls school made sure we all did. But I didn’t simply love Fred and Ginger films, I also listened to their soundtracks and watched them whenever they played at Theater 80 in the East Village, our local rep house. (I even took tap-dancing lessons!) I was one of those kids, deep in her head and quite content to spend a lot of time alone watching movies in the dark, kind of like now. Years later, I struggled with that love when I started reading feminist film criticism.
I’ve been wrestling with the contradictions of movies ever since, sometimes with pleasure and satisfaction, at other times with frustration, exasperation or rage. It can be exhausting. Sometimes, you just want to watch a movie, not keep a running inventory of each affront, every offensive line or beat. Did women direct, write, produce, star? Does the female lead have anything of interest to say? Why is she taking off her underwear for the lovemaking scene while the guy keeps his on? Why is her breast showing? Why is she smiling (always smiling)? Why is she a hooker? Or dead? Is she merely there, kind of like the dog or a pricey lamp, so she can suggest that the hero is also an Everyman?
So, I take inventory. Although if I’m lucky, I also bliss out on beauty, grace and art. And I continue to struggle, including with the question of whether it’s possible to separate the art from the artist. My preference has been always to engage with the cinematic object, the visible evidence, as I like to think of it. There is, as we know, plenty of damning evidence right there, in the choices that filmmakers have made, including where they’ve put the camera and who they have put on camera and how. And then there’s the fact that once that title is released, it no longer belongs strictly to the people who own it — it belongs to the viewers, who are the ones who finally give a work its meaning.
