At last year’s Academy Awards, “Arrival” won the Oscar for best sound editing. This was not to be confused with the award for best sound mixing, which went to “Hacksaw Ridge.”
This year, the same movies — “Baby Driver,” “Blade Runner 2049,” “Dunkirk,” “The Shape of Water” and “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” — are up for both awards.
So what’s the difference? Isn’t mixing levels a core part of sound editing? Not quite. In layman’s terms, sound editing is about collecting the sounds needed for a film. Sound mixing refers to what is done after they are collected.
The sound editing category used to be known as sound effect editing, which is actually the more apt name. When scenes are shot, typically the focus is almost entirely on getting the dialogue and staging down pat.
It is left to the sound editors to put in other noise to complement the spoken words. This could be ambient sound, like an air-conditioner or the approach of a distant train. In the case of “Star Wars: The Last Jedi,”  this would mean the sound of Luke’s lightsaber in conjunction with the rustle of trees on Ahch-To, among many other sounds.
Walter Murch, an Oscar-winning sound editor for “Apocalypse Now” and “The English Patient,” has likened the filling out of audio around dialogue to making a mosaic.
In an interview posted by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, he explained, “I would say that 98 percent of all the sound that you hear in a film is added after the fact.”
“To achieve the final effect of the final soundtrack, there is a huge amount of replacement and addition of sounds,” he added. “Why we do that is not only to make it sound more convincing for what we see, but frequently to add sounds that are shading into what you might call musical effects.”
Sound mixing then refers to the postproduction after sounds are already inserted. The most essential goal is to meld the sounds seamlessly with the recorded dialogue. It could mean making that train actually seem distant or adding reverb to a bird’s squawk to create tension in a scene. It also includes matching the audio levels of dialogue recorded at different times.
“The mixing board is the equivalent of an organ for a church,” Mr. Murch said. “We are playing these complicated organs and making decisions about the final symphony of the sound of the film.”
So there you have it. Sound editing refers to obtaining the necessary sounds. Sound mixing is about layering them.
