A No Wave Super 8 film writ large, Slava Tsukerman’s “Liquid Sky” was a midnight movie that opened at normal hours 35 years ago and, although highly stylized and very much a product of its era, has remained remarkably resilient. Now, 11 months after its 35-millimeter print was said to have been retired, it returns to the Quad Cinema for a run in a crisp, new 4K digital restoration.
The movie, whose title was a slang term for heroin invented by the filmmakers, is set amid the drug-addled, fashion-crazed, sexually jaded habitués of New York’s downtown demimonde. Adding to the spectacle: An unseen extraterrestrial based in a flying saucer approximately the size of a dinner plate is feeding, with deadly results, on the scene’s narcotic bliss and orgasmic energy — something that only a visiting West German scientist recognizes.
Science-fiction premise aside, “Liquid Sky” is a dark comedy of manners centering on a well-bred, extremely caustic model, Margaret (Anne Carlisle); her equally acerbic male nemesis, Jimmy (also Ms. Carlisle); and her even nastier lover, Adrian (Paula E. Sheppard), an irascible dope dealer cum performance artist. Adrian’s sneering onstage persona suggests a bizarre misreading of the downtown luminaries Laurie Anderson and Klaus Nomi, but the movie’s prize scene is a rooftop fashion shoot featuring a trash-talking, mean-sex showdown between Ms. Carlisle’s two characters.
“Liquid Sky” originally opened in New York at the Waverly (now the IFC Center), onetime home of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” and its costumed cult members. Reviews were almost universally favorable. “The right audiences are bound to appreciate the originality displayed here, not to mention the color, rage, nonchalance, sly humor and ferocious fashion sense,” Janet Maslin wrote in The New York Times.
On Variety’s top-grossing film chart for over half a year, “Liquid Sky” was perhaps the most successful independent film of its day. It was also the most eccentric example of those Reagan-era movies — “E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial,” “Splash,” “Moscow on the Hudson,” to name three — in which America is shown through foreign eyes. And it was indeed made by actual foreigners. Mr. Tsukerman, the director and producer; his wife, Nina V. Kerova, who collaborated with him on the script; and the cinematographer, Yuri Neyman, were all recent Russian émigrés.
“Liquid Sky” has a particularly Soviet quality. Not only is it a montage film with much parallel action, but the costumes, makeup, hair styles, production design and even the herky-jerky dances are also highly suggestive of Russia’s 1920s Constructivist avant-garde. Its true ancestor is the director Yakov Protazanov’s 1924 Soviet space opera, “Aelita,” which, among other things, depicts a revolution on Mars.
Classic midnight movies, like “El Topo,” “Pink Flamingos,” and especially “The Rocky Horror Picture Show,” were repositories of ’60s countercultural values, appreciated by 1970s and 1980s audiences even after the counterculture itself faded away. “Liquid Sky” successfully packaged, even as it satirized, the ethos and aesthetic of the late 1970s and early 1980s club scene in Lower Manhattan.
The movie outlived Club 57, the Mudd Club, et al, by decades. More than a time capsule, it’s still a good show and, like “Rocky Horror,” sometimes attended by appropriately costumed fans.
