An unspectacular week at the box office led Sony’s “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” back to No. 1. The action movie took in $27 million from Friday through Sunday to bring its domestic total to $283 million after four weeks. “Jumanji” also topped the Chinese box office and has made over $550 million worldwide; its success has cemented Kevin Hart and Dwayne Johnson as box office near-guarantees.
Less successful was the Liam Neeson vehicle “The Commuter,” which opened to $13.4 million, according to comScore, which compiles box office data. That’s a far cry from “Taken 3,” which arrived the same calendar weekend in 2015 and took in $40.4 million. “The Commuter” reportedly cost $30 million to make, and its ticket sales are a sign that audiences might be wearying of Mr. Neeson’s action movies (as our critic was).
“The Post,” a well-reviewed recounting of The Washington Post’s efforts to release the Pentagon Papers that stars Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks, took in $18 million in its first week in wide release, good for second place. Fox has been slowly rolling out the Oscar contender to build word of mouth, and is hoping for attention from the Academy Awards (nominations are released next week) to give it a long tail. The movie cost $50 million to make and drew an older crowd, with 66 percent of its audience over 35.
Despite a 100 percent score on Rotten Tomatoes, “Paddington 2” made just $10.6 million in its arrival to North America, about less than half of what its 2014 prequel made in its first weekend. Warner Bros., which bought the movie from the Weinstein Company following sexual assault accusations against Harvey Weinstein, has excellent exit-polling numbers to bank on — the movie earned an A CinemaScore grade overall, and an A+ from audience members under 35. And the movie has already made a cool $125 million overseas.
“I, Tonya” and “Lady Bird” both increased their earnings compared to their previous weeks, perhaps thanks to victories at the Golden Globes. Meanwhile, “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” moved up to 10th place on the list of all-time global moneymakers; it sits at $1.2 billion total.
