Our guide to film series and special screenings. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
‘MICHELANGELO ANTONIONI’ at the Museum of Modern Art (through Jan. 7). The bard of the alienated bourgeoisie, Antonioni (1912-2007) did as much as any Italian filmmaker who ever lived to expand moviegoers’ imagination about film structure. This career-spanning retrospective, billed as the most complete in New York in a decade, has all the standards, including the loose early-1960s trilogy — “L’Avventura,” “La Notte” and “L’Eclisse” (all showing Sunday and Dec. 16) — that vaulted the maestro to international acclaim, as well as lesser-known features worthy of fresh consideration, like “The Mystery of Oberwald,” from 1980, based on a Jean Cocteau play. The series will conclude with a weeklong run of “Chung Kuo—Cina (China),” a documentary Antonioni made in China in the early 1970s.212-708-9400, moma.org
‘THE NITEHAWK HOLIDAY SHOW SPECTACULAR’ at Nitehawk Cinema and ‘Rated Xmas’ at IFC Center (through Dec. 31). ’Tis the season when New York’s theaters compete to have the most eclectic Christmas series, and both the Nitehawk and IFC Center have cross-pollinated their holiday offerings with their midnight movies. The Nitehawk’s program includes “Eyes Wide Shut” (Friday and Saturday) and “Hounds of Love” (Dec. 15 and 16), an Australian serial-killer movie set against a sweltering Christmas backdrop. IFC Center’s series opens with the campy horror comedy “Jack Frost” (Friday and Saturday) and “Trading Places” (Friday and Saturday) — Christmas being when Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd’s characters join forces.212-924-7771, ifccenter.com718-782-8370, nitehawkcinema.com.
‘ROMAN HOLLYWOOD’ at Film Forum (through Dec. 21). Italy became a hot spot for Hollywood filmmakers after World War II. Film Forum is surveying the results, along with the work of some Italian directors gone American (Sergio Leone’s “Once Upon a Time in America,” screening Dec. 21). The experience of making movies abroad is dramatized in Vincente Minnelli’s “Two Weeks in Another Town” (Friday and Dec. 19), a 1962 spiritual sequel to “The Bad and the Beautiful” in which an aging star (Kirk Douglas) is lured to Italy by a longtime collaborator (Edward G. Robinson). Other highlights include Billy Wilder’s poignant “Avanti!” (Friday and Dec. 21); Martin Scorsese’s “Gangs of New York” (Friday); several epics of antiquity; and even “The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou” (Dec. 15).212-727-8110, filmforum.org
