If there’s one constant in samurai movies, it’s that their heroes are ridiculously hard to kill, battling on through every assault short of being blown to smithereens. Imagine, then, how much tougher to dispatch is a samurai whose wounds — the physical ones, anyway — heal themselves, and you have a fair idea of the sheer volume of damage visited on Manji (Takuya Kimura), the justifiably grumpy centerpiece of Takashi Miike’s “Blade of the Immortal.”
Adding a soupçon of sorcery to the genre’s typical vengeance saga, Manji’s immortality effectively embellishes the slice-and-dice dust-ups that propel the plot and punctuate Tetsuya Oishi’s screenplay. (As it happens, Manji can be rubbed out, just exceedingly slowly — like, over years.) Based on the eponymous long-running manga series by Hiroaki Samura, the story opens on a stunning black-and-white battle that leaves Manji mortally wounded and his little sister slain.
Out of nowhere, an ancient crone appears and stuffs sacred worms into his wounds. Like slimy paramedics, the creatures rejoin his gashes and gloppily reattach his severed hand, but Manji feels more cursed than blessed. And when the movie leaps 50 years ahead and bursts into color we find him scarred, reclusive and not at all eager to help a young girl named Rin (Hana Sugisaki) avenge the murder of her parents. But Rin looks exactly like his sister, and a “True Grit” connection develops that will send them on one of the bloodiest quests in samurai history.
It’s also one of the most bonkers. Single-handedly facing down a succession of riverine hordes, Manji also has to dodge ultra-colorful weaponry — like blades cunningly designed to relocate your insides to your outsides — and an array of fancifully coifed and costumed lone opponents. These include a lithe young swordswoman, bravely defying the constraints of a purple maxi skirt and platform sandals; a masked monster with dead heads strapped to his shoulders; a fellow immortal who’s 200 years old and ready to die after seeing five wives to their graves. (A conservative number, I thought, for two centuries.)
Though not nearly as mindful or meaty as Mr. Miike’s 2011 triumph, “13 Assassins,” “Blade” is creatively gory fun. Overlong and over-the-top, the brutality finally becomes repetitive and somewhat deadening; but Mr. Miike has learned a few tricks from his many previous movies, like allowing the camera to sit still and capture the eerie silence that follows a massacre.
That stillness is a trademark of Anotsu (Sota Fukushi, terrific), the story’s big bad and also its most beautiful. Languid and slender, with an androgynous pout and a fondness for palest turquoise, the soft-voiced Anotsu leads his renegade army primarily by standing and posing. He doesn’t need to scream or gesticulate; the whole world is his runway.
