The French film director Agnès Varda, 89, became the oldest person ever to receive an Oscar nomination with her documentary “Faces Places.” She also became the first female director to receive an honorary Oscar at the Academy’s Governors Awards, after which Ms. Varda did a little dance onstage.
Though it is Ms. Varda’s first Oscar nomination, she has been a mainstay of film coverage in The New York Times for six decades. Her earliest appearance in the Times was in 1958, in a list of winners from the Brussels International Film Festival screening in New York.
Ms. Varda was profiled in 1966 and has appeared regularly in the Times since. Here are some highlights from The Times’s coverage of her career.
After the release of her film “Le Bonheur,” which won a Silver Bear at the Berlin Film Festival, Ms. Varda was interviewed by the film writer Howard Thompson.
Ms. Varda called herself “the feminine New Wave,” and Mr. Thompson noted that she was “one of the few female writer-directors in the world.” The director Alain Resnais, who edited Ms. Varda’s first film, “La Pointe Courte,” credited her with “heralding all the gathering forces of the oncoming New Wave.”
Ms. Varda was profiled by Flora Lewis after her film “One Sings, the Other Doesn’t” was selected to open the New York Film Festival in 1977. At the festival, Ms. Varda introduced her movie by proclaiming that the attendees were going to see “a film about women who were also people.”
Ms. Varda discussed gender imbalance in movies. “Is there such a thing as a woman’s film, of special interest to women? We have to see, they haven’t had any choice,” she said. Ms. Varda wanted to portray female relationships on film. “There are always stories about virile male friendships, Brando and Nicholson, Newman and Redford and so on, but not about friendship between women. The women are always motherly or tarty.”
Ms. Varda’s film “Vagabond” won the Golden Lion at the 1985 Venice Film Festival, making her the second female director to receive the prize. Annette Insdorf noted that the film had “little in common with the Parisian farces, American blockbusters and urban thrillers that dominated the French box office.” Ms. Varda said she wanted to “make a film about the real France — not Parisian intellectuals — the France that is completely ignored in contemporary cinema.”
The film’s star, Sandrine Bonnaire, had become “one of the most sought-after screen artists in her country.” Ms. Varda said she sold Ms. Bonnaire on the film by telling her that the character would be “alone, dirty and rebellious, and she dies of the cold. Miss Bonnaire was delighted.”
The Museum of Modern Art screened all of Ms. Varda’s films in a retrospective of her work in 1997. When Mel Gussow spoke to Ms. Varda about the tribute, she said, “At least it doesn’t say posthume.” The story describes her point of view on the art of filmmaking, including her case for the auteur theory. “Auteurs are much attacked nowadays because people say they are selfish and narcissistic, that they don’t want to listen to anybody. It’s true — and so what?”
She also speaks to her origins as a feminist. “I think I was a feminist before being born. I had a feminist chromosome somewhere.” She describes hating Snow White as a child. “ I could see she was behaving stupidly, cleaning the dishes, brooming everything for these monsters. It was ridiculous — and waiting for the ugly prince.”
Ms. Varda spoke to Leslie Camhi in 2001 about her inspiration for the film “The Gleaners and I,” which focused on people who live off the garbage thrown out by others. Ms. Varda told Ms. Camhi the film was “about an ill society, that does a poor job of sharing its bounty — but the very people who are living through that difficulty point the finger and teach us about it.”
Ms. Camhi tied “The Gleaners and I” to the socially conscious themes of Ms. Varda’s other work and detailed her legacy, including how Ms. Varda, then 72, was crowned “the ancestor of the New Wave” at the age of 30.
“I’m like those old painters who don’t bother to make sketches or ask permissions. They don’t give explanations. They just go ahead and do it,” Ms. Varda said, reflecting on “Gleaners,” which she also produced.
The Times co-chief film critic A. O. Scott spoke to Ms. Varda about her documentary “The Beaches of Agnès.” The film “is a cinematic memoir in two senses,” Mr. Scott wrote. “An autobiography rendered in carefully chosen, meaning-rich images and the account of a life lived in, through and for cinema.”
“I am the queen of the margins, but the films are loved. The films are remembered,” Ms. Varda said of her career. “And this is my aim — to be loved as a filmmaker because I want to share emotions, to share the pleasure of being a filmmaker.”
Ms. Varda’s Oscar-nominated “Faces Places” was a Times Critic’s Pick, and both chief film critics, Manohla Dargis and Mr. Scott, named it one of the best films of the year. “Contemplating some of the sorrows in her own past and the precariousness of the European present, she keeps gloom at bay with her resilient faith in the power of art to conserve and expand human dignity,” Mr. Scott said. “Every second of this movie proves her right.”
Ms. Dargis takes it a step further. “Ms. Varda is often described as one of the greatest female directors alive, which is true. She is also one of the greatest.”
