Our guide to film series and special screenings. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
‘ALL OR NOTHING: THE FEARLESS PERFORMANCES OF DANIEL DAY-LEWIS’ at the Quad Cinema (Dec. 15-24). Mr. Day-Lewis is already being hailed for his turn as Reynolds Woodcock, an exacting, willful London fashion designer in “Phantom Thread” (opening Dec. 25). The movie marks the actor’s second collaboration with the director Paul Thomas Anderson, after “There Will Be Blood” (Wednesday, Thursday and Dec. 22), for which Mr. Day-Lewis took his second of three Oscars. The other statuette-winning performances, in “My Left Foot” (Saturday and Monday) and “Lincoln” (Dec. 24), are among the highlights of the Quad’s career retrospective.212-255-2243, quadcinema.com
‘CAROL’ at the Metrograph (Dec. 20-25). Just two years after its release, “Carol” has become something of a Christmas classic. And in another new tradition, the Metrograph is showing it on film, from the cinematographer Ed Lachman’s stunning personal print. It’s an ideal way to appreciate the attention to detail that Todd Haynes brought to this 1950s period piece, not to mention Sandy Powell’s costumes and the freighted glances cast between Rooney Mara and Cate Blanchett.212-660-0312, metrograph.com
CURATORS’ CHOICE at the Museum of the Moving Image (Dec. 15 through Jan. 1). Not to be confused with The Contenders, a similar, concurrent series at the Museum of Modern Art, Curators’ Choice showcases some of the Museum of the Moving Image programmers’ favorite titles from 2017. It opens with the French director Bertrand Bonello’s divisive “Nocturama” (Friday), which is as formally dazzling as any film this year but also vexing from a moral perspective. Shot before the November 2015 attacks in Paris, it follows a group of young terrorists who, after setting off coordinated explosions across the city, hide in a shopping mall à la “Dawn of the Dead,” bewitched by the globo-capitalist culture they sought to upend. Also showing is Terence Davies’s excellent Emily Dickinson biopic, “A Quiet Passion” (Dec. 31), starring Cynthia Nixon, which appeared on both Manohla Dargis and A. O. Scott’s lists of the year’s best.718-784-0077, movingimage.us
‘JONAS MEKAS: 95 AND BEYOND’ at Anthology Film Archives (Dec. 18-22). To celebrate the 95th birthday of Mr. Mekas — one of the founders of Anthology Film Archives and its artistic director — the theater, which annually shows his films “Walden” (Monday) and “Reminiscences of a Journey to Lithuania” (Tuesday), will also screen some of his less-shown work made from 1949 to 2009.212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org
