Our guide to film series and special screenings. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
CRIMES OF PASSION: THE EROTIC THRILLER at the Quad Cinema (Feb. 2-17). The Quad serves up skin for Valentine’s Day. This proudly explicit program draws an implicit line from the fully clothed eroticism of “Double Indemnity” (Friday and Tuesday) and “Vertigo” (Sunday and Monday) to the more-unbuttoned pastiches of those films made by Brian De Palma (“Femme Fatale,” Tuesday and Feb. 11, and “Body Double,” Feb. 11 and 17) to the sleazy fever dreams of the screenwriter Joe Eszterhas. (“Basic Instinct,” itself a “Vertigo” tribute directed by Paul Verhoeven, screens Friday and Feb. 16 and looks better with each passing year; “Jade,” alas, showing Feb. 9 and 10, still doesn’t make much sense, William Friedkin’s expert use of San Francisco notwithstanding.)212-255-2243, quadcinema.com
DOCUMENTARISTS FOR A DAY at Anthology Film Archives (Feb. 2-20). Filmmakers best known for their fiction work have occasionally made documentaries, sometimes — as with Orson Welles in “F for Fake” (Friday, Tuesday and Feb. 10) — with an eye on deconstructing the form. Alongside Welles’s classic sleight of hand, Anthology will screen other films that don’t quite conform to the boundaries of nonfiction, including “India: Matri Bhumi” (Saturday, Wednesday and Feb. 19), Roberto Rossellini’s rarely shown chronicle of India; Shohei Imamura’s “A Man Vanishes” (Saturday, Thursday and Sunday), which begins as a sort of missing-person investigation; and Rainer Werner Fassbinder’s “Theater in Trance” (Saturday, Thursday and Feb. 20), shot at a 1981 theater festival.212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org
‘MARTIN SCORSESE PRESENTS REPUBLIC REDISCOVERED: NEW RESTORATIONS FROM PARAMOUNT PICTURES’ at the Museum of Modern Art (through Feb. 15). Anyone who has followed Mr. Scorsese over the years knows of his passion for film preservation and of his love for the poverty-row studio Republic, whose low-budget westerns, noirs and adventure pictures made lasting impressions on him as a young filmgoer. With this two-part series (the second half is in August), the director, who made the selections, sheds light on neglected titles; several will screen in new restorations. “Hellfire” (Friday, Tuesday and Feb. 13), a western about a card cheat who gets religion, plays up the florid oranges and blues of the house Trucolor process, while “Accused of Murder” (Monday and Wednesday), offers a chance to see the work of two Republic regulars, the director Joseph Kane and the actress Vera Ralston. On Saturday, Mr. Scorsese will introduce John H. Auer’s wonderfully loopy “City That Never Sleeps” (also showing Feb. 11), a Capra-esque crime story narrated, in a reverberating, omniscient voice, by the city of Chicago itself.212-708-9400, moma.org
TELL ME: WOMEN FILMMAKERS, WOMEN’S STORIES at the Metrograph (Feb. 2-11). The subject of this series is films directed by women, about women — or more specifically, in which women discuss their lives on camera. The film that gives the series its title is “Dis-Moi (Tell Me)” (Saturday), in which Chantal Akerman interviews Holocaust survivors, one of whom is her mother; the film will screen alongside Su Friedrich’s “The Ties That Bind.” The program also includes “Privilege” (Feb. 9), in which the dancer and filmmaker Yvonne Rainer employs a variety of narrative strategies to explore the topic of menopause.212-660-0312, metrograph.com
