Our guide to film series and special screenings. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
MARTIAL/ART at the Metrograph (Jan. 26-Feb. 10). One way to approach this series of martial arts films is to see it as a contrast in generations of filmmakers. Original masters of the wuxia genre like King Hu (“Dragon Inn,” showing Friday, and “A Touch of Zen,” showing Feb. 10) will share the screen with directors they inspired, including Ang Lee, whose “Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon,” screening Saturday and Sunday, pays tribute to King Hu, and Hou Hsiao-hsien, whose great 2015 film “The Assassin,” showing Feb. 3, is a gorgeous and cerebral take on the mode.212-660-0312, metrograph.com
PROJECTIONS OF MEMORY at the Museum of the Moving Image (Jan. 27-28). The series shares a title with a new book by Richard I. Suchenski, who analyzes films that have pushed the boundaries of the form. Some of them are featured in this program. The event screening — and the biggest challenge — is almost certainly Jean-Luc Godard’s four-hour-plus “Histoire(s) du Cinéma” (Sunday), a fragmented reflection on cinema and historiography that is about as close to undiluted Godard as it gets.718-784-0077, movingimage.us
THAT’S ME UP THERE: THE SINGULAR ART OF PLAYING YOURSELF at the Quad Cinema (Jan. 26-Feb. 1). Acting as yourself isn’t easy, especially if your “character” is periodically under the mind control of others. (This happened to poor John Malkovich in “Being John Malkovich,” showing Friday and Sunday.) Still, the Quad’s series suggests a couple of trends. Many of the featured stars essentially played characters in public life (such as the Beatles in “A Hard Day’s Night,” showing Sunday, or Howard Stern in “Private Parts,” showing Thursday). The lineup also includes Hollywood satires like “The Player,” which delights in blink-and-you’ll-miss-them walk-ons. The program is designed as preparation for Clint Eastwood’s coming movie “The 15:17 to Paris,” based on a real incident, whose principal cast members play themselves.212-255-2243, quadcinema.com
