The laughs in the new documentary about Jim Carrey and Andy Kaufman don’t just pop, they also gush. The giggles start with the playful title: “Jim & Andy: The Great Beyond — Featuring a Very Special, Contractually Obligated Mention of Tony Clifton.” It’s an amusing pileup that in its excess hints at the rich weirdness that emerged when Mr. Carrey nearly went off the rails playing Kaufman in the biopic “Man on the Moon.” One of those tidy, fumbled stories of genius, it will be forever supplanted by this movie’s dizzily, fantastically entertaining account of its two strange, twinned and messy geniuses.
Kaufman, who died from lung cancer in 1984, was a standup who hit the mainstream playing Latka Gravas, a mechanic of indeterminate national origin, in the sitcom “Taxi.” That show was a critical favorite, if not a ratings behemoth, and it goosed the big-screen careers of some of its players (Danny DeVito, Christopher Lloyd). Kaufman wasn’t made for movies, but in live shows as well as on “Saturday Night Live” and on talk shows (David Letterman), he continued to test the limits of his singular absurdist comedy by assuming the guise of innocent fools or spectacularly awful louts. Kaufman is still sometimes referred to as a cult comic, a category that skews reductive decades later.
“Jim & Andy” revisits Kaufman’s tragically abridged story, largely through Mr. Carrey’s experiences playing him. By the time Mr. Carrey signed on to make “Man on the Moon” (1999), he was a major movie star, having appeared in both commercial hits (“Dumb and Dumber”) and critical successes (“The Truman Show”). Physically, he may have seemed a bit off to play Kaufman (too lanky, too crowned with hair), but he took on the role with painstaking if seemingly typical actorly mimicry. Mr. Carrey found the character in big and little ways: in Kaufman’s many voices, his fixed stare and in the walks, stances and gestures he used to play characters or when he was just being (or playing) Andy.
“Jim & Andy” suggests that in finding Kaufman, Mr. Carrey also lost himself, at least for a while (though maybe longer). The story of what happened during the making of “Man on the Moon” has been covered before, including in news articles published around the time of its release. In one, a journalist who visited the set during production noted that Mr. Carrey never broke character even after cut was called. In another account, Mr. DeVito, who played George Shapiro, Andy Kaufman’s manager in “Man on the Moon,” said Mr. Carrey dove so deeply into his role as Kaufman that “Jim only came to work two days during the filming.” That sure sounds like the final word on the Carrey-Kaufman cinematic convergence.
Directed by Chris Smith, “Jim & Andy” reveals that those earlier reports — which read as if yet another performer had taken the whole Method acting thing a touch too far — hardly get at the strangeness that materialized (and lingers). “So, Jim, how would you start this movie?,” an offscreen Mr. Smith asks Mr. Carrey at the start. Seated in what looks like an anonymous hotel room and wearing a luxurious beard and a leather jacket, Mr. Carrey grunts softly and glances away. And then, looking directly into the camera, he says: “Well, if I had my choice, it wouldn’t start at all. It would already have been.” Mr. Carrey breaks into a small, ambiguous smile. “And it wouldn’t end, either.”
Is Mr. Carrey smiling at his words or his memories (or at us)? It can be hard to know, an uncertainty that fits the movie’s exploration of reality and its simulations. By contrast, the documentary’s genesis, which is partly spelled out in title cards, is rather clearer and can be traced to some 100 hours of behind-the-scenes video shot during the making of “Man on the Moon.” This material had been stashed in Mr. Carrey’s offices for almost 20 years until the director Spike Jonze (“Her”), a producer on “Jim & Andy,” persuaded Mr. Carrey to do something with it. Mr. Smith, whose earlier titles include “American Movie” and “The Yes Men,” was hired and smartly set his focus on Mr. Carrey.
The result isn’t another ho-hum documentary likeness in which all the elements neatly and often flatteringly stack up. “Jim & Andy” is instead a complexly layered and textured Cubist portrait, one that’s been constructed from fragments of its two title subjects and their work. In one corner of the portrait there’s something from Mr. Carrey’s life (a story about his father, a glimpse of an early routine); in another, something from Kaufman’s personal history (his family, his work, his illness). Sometimes these fragments rest side by side, at other times they overlap. And, every so often, Kaufman’s notorious alter ego Tony Clifton, an obnoxious lounge lizard, muscles in to upend the entire thing.
“Jim & Andy” folds a lot into its 95 minutes. It slides from art to life — thoughtfully poking around in that blurred space between them — and jumps around in time, all while flipping from Kaufman to Mr. Carrey and then to Mr. Carrey as Mr. Kaufman. (The editor is Barry Poltermann.) You never get lost amid all these multiple identities and realities, which Mr. Smith amusingly, at times alarmingly, gathers together. It’s funny watching Milos Forman — who directed “Man on the Moon” — refer to Mr. Carrey as Andy, but when Mr. Carrey turns into Tony Clifton something more sinister and menacing comes through. Is this art, indulgence or madness? As this documentary reminds you, with hard laughter and startlingly intense emotion, comedy always needs its pound of flesh.
