Updated, 1:02 p.m.Good morning on this white Wednesday.For a look at your evening commute and updates on how the storm is affecting the entire Northeast, read The Times’s live briefing.Happy four’easter.The region’s fourth nor’easter this month arrives today.By Thursday, we could have up to 12 to 18 inches of snow in the city. Snow totals drop the farther you move from the city, with 12 to 15 inches expected in parts of Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.“The heaviest snowfall amounts will be right in and around New York City,” said Bill Goodman, a meteorologist from the National Weather Service.We’ll help you navigate both commutes today, updating conditions through the evening here. At the moment, the morning commute is looking stable.• Long Island Rail Road and the subway are operating on normal schedules.• Metro-North, New Jersey Transit and Amtrak are operating on limited schedules.• More than 2,350 area flights have been canceled. La Guardia expects to cancel all flights after noon. American Airlines will suspend flight operations at Newark after 11 a.m. and at Kennedy after 1 p.m. Check your flight at La Guardia, Kennedy and Newark before you head to the airport.• The Staten Island Ferry is running on a regular schedule. NY Waterway and Seastreak ferries are running on modified schedules. The Rockaway NYC Ferry route is canceled today.A winter storm warning is in effect. For those of you who don’t speak meteorologese, that means snow, sleet and ice will make traveling difficult, and at times nearly impossible, today. New York City schools are closed for the day.The heaviest snowfall is expected this afternoon, when it could fall at a rate of one to two inches an hour. Plan on a messy trip home from work.“It may seem kind of quaint in the morning, but it’s going to get a lot worse as the day goes by,” said John Homenuk, a meteorologist at New York Metro Weather.The temperature will hover around freezing, and strong wind gusts of nearly 40 miles an hour could make it feel as cold as 15 degrees.If the forecast holds, this could be the biggest spring snowstorm in our city’s history.New York City’s largest snowstorm after the vernal equinox was on April 3, 1915, when 10 inches fell.This nor’easter is forecast to drop more snow on New York City than the previous storms this month, the last of which killed two people and left hundreds of thousands in the region without power. Power failures are possible throughout the day. Broadway shows will go on as planned, but city libraries are shuttered today.Like earlier this month, we could see some thundersnow, and lots of sleet. What is sleet, exactly?“Sometimes what happens is that, in between a cloud that’s producing snowflakes and the ground, you get a layer of warm air,” Mr. Homenuk said. “The snowflake from the cloud melts into a raindrop in the warm layer, and then passes back into freezing air, and then it refreezes into like an ice pellet.”(Unlike freezing rain, which freezes after it hits the ground.)“When it’s sleeting, you will know,” he added. “Sleet stings. It pings you. It’s not as gentle as a snowflake.”Here’s what else is happening:• Cynthia Nixon, the former “Sex and the City” star now running for governor, wasted little time before taking jabs at Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. [New York Times]• In Big City, the columnist Ginia Bellafante writes that the biggest hurdle for Ms. Nixon may be how well Governor Cuomo has mastered the art of the political performance. [New York Times]• A lone sheriff is embracing a new program to crack down on undocumented immigrants in jail in an upstate county. [New York Times]•  An “Apprentice” contestant’s lawsuit raises the possibility of more public accusations of sexual misconduct against the president. [New York Times]• Fifty years later, a missing woman’s remains have been unearthed on Long Island. [New York Times]• Some dairy farmers in New York have been contemplating a grim response to their financial woes: suicide. [New York Times]• A worker who fell onto the subway tracks in Manhattan hit his head and died. [New York Times]• Despite a travel ban and immigration restrictions, a record 62.8 million tourists visited the city in 2017. [New York Times]• The Equitable Building in Lower Manhattan is expecting to get a $50 million face-lift. [New York Times]• As Tax Day approaches, nonprofits in Brooklyn are lending a helping hand to low-income New Yorkers. [BKLYNER]• Students say marching isn’t enough. To take on the gun debate, they say, you have to bring the fight to the polls. [WNYC]• Is the Coney Island boardwalk iconic enough to be preserved? [BKLYNER]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “He Just Walks That Way”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.Check events before you go. They may have been canceled because of the storm.• Enjoy classical music during your commute during the annual Bach in the Subways festival. Various locations. [Free]• Sandra Bloodworth, the director of the M.T.A. Arts & Design program, leads the discussion “Behind the M.T.A. Arts & Design Projects” at the 92nd Street Y on the Upper East Side. Noon. [$29]• Learn how to make a window box for plants that uses less water than traditional boxes, at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. 6 p.m. [Free]• A discussion about living in space, with drinks and trivia games, at Astronomy on Tap at the Way Station in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. 7:30 p.m. [Free]• Alternate-side parking remains suspended today and tomorrow.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.How many hours will you work today?Now that we’re all easily reachable through our phones, it can feel as though we’re constantly on the clock. Even if you have a traditional 9-to-5, responding to emails or taking calls after hours are often considered a requirement of the job.We want to know how New York Today readers handle work communications after hours. Do you pick up the phone all night, or do you have a self-imposed cutoff? Is it something you struggle with it, or have you learned to accept that the job never ends?Let us know by sending an email to nytoday@nytimes.com. Please include your full name, age and the neighborhood or city in which you live. We may include your response in an upcoming New York Today column.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.