Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Delaine Eastin, a former Democratic member of the State Assembly and onetime superintendent of public education, is one of nearly 30 candidates running to succeed Gov. Jerry Brown. California Today is planning occasional Q. and A. sessions with candidates for office, and we’re starting with Ms. Eastin. The interview has been edited and condensed.Q. How much do you see yourself continuing with — or not — programs and policies put in place under Governor Brown?A. Jerry Brown has very high marks when it comes to financial responsibility and he’s a strong environmental governor. Always has been. I don’t give him as high marks in education. I give his father the high marks in education. His father was amazing. Having said that, Jerry Brown has a lot to be proud of, and there’s a lot we should continue and I will.Q. How big a problem is poverty and homelessness in California?A. It’s enormous. In your life have you ever seen as many homeless children? Twenty-five percent of the homeless in America are in California. We need to urgently get these children off the street — and their mothers as well.Q. Is this something the governor has not paid enough attention to?A. He should have declared a public emergency. Some communities are doing things. Sacramento is taking steps. Los Angeles is taking steps. There is not enough being done statewide. The governor should really be stepping up and doing things to prevent this terrible tragedy.Q. How do you feel about the high-speed train proposed for Los Angeles to San Francisco?A. I hope we can find a way to do it. But I can’t commit to doing it if we don’t find a revenue stream. It really is saying we’ll build a big expensive thing when we can’t afford to give kids health care, we can’t afford to educate kids. There are things that are more important than high-speed rail. If we have to walk away, we will. Still, I’m one who believes that where there’s a will, there’s a way.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• Hundreds of protesters filled the streets of Sacramento on Thursday, blocking traffic on a major highway and shutting down an arena after the police fatally shot a young black man in his backyard over the weekend. [The New York Times]• The California Supreme Court ruled that public colleges have a duty to protect students from foreseeable violence. The decision, which was related to a knife attack at U.C.L.A., is among the first of its kind in the nation. [The Los Angeles Times]• Hasta Muerte Coffee in Oakland is “asking police to leave for the physical and emotional safety” of its customers and staff. Now there are protests. [KQED]• The #DeleteFacebook movement has taken off, with the hashtag appearing 90,000 times on social media since last Friday. The vast majority of these mentions, 93 percent, appeared on Twitter. [The San Francisco Chronicle] [The New York Times]• Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom leads the way in the governor’s race, according to a new poll. The Republican businessman John Cox has moved into second place. [The Sacramento Bee]• San Francisco is now losing more people than it can attract. [The Wall Street Journal]• How do you catch a stoned driver? It isn’t that easy. [The Los Angeles Times]• The “Great Pacific Garbage Patch” is ballooning, to 87,000 tons of plastic and counting. The “swirling oceanic graveyard” of plastic bottles, children’s toys and other everyday objects will eventually disintegrate into small particles that get eaten by fish — and may enter our food chain. [The New York Times]• “Brash, unpredictable, obscene, uplifting, intellectual and provocative” — hip-hop is now the focus of an exhibition at the Oakland Museum of California. [The San Francisco Chronicle]Thousands of students will march in communities across the country on Saturday, calling on officials to pass laws that would help put an end to gun violence.California rally locations are listed here. A counterprotest, called the Defend the Second Amendment Rally, will take place at the Wilshire Federal Building in Los Angeles.A recent poll of California voters indicates that support for stricter gun laws has climbed 15 percentage points, to about 70 percent, since last month’s deadly shooting in Parkland, Fla.And the report, from the Public Policy Institute of California, suggests that Republicans are joining Democrats in their support for a change to gun laws. The institute found that 87 percent of Democrats thought gun laws should be stricter, and that 48 percent of Republicans agreed — up from 28 percent last year.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.