Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)More than 10 years ago, Arnold Schwarzenegger, then the Republican governor of California, told an audience of conservative leaders that the California Republican Party had moved too far to the right and was “dying at the box office.”“How right I was,” Mr. Schwarzenegger said in a rare return public appearance on Wednesday. “The party was going down and down and down. Today we are the Titanic after it hit the iceberg — but before the last bit of the ship submerged.”Mr. Schwarzenegger was speaking at a youth center in East Los Angeles marking the start of an organization of moderate California Republicans trying to move the way-out-of-power state party to the center — and back, organizers said, into being a player in state governance. The organization is called New Way California and was put together by Assemblyman Chad Mayes, who was ousted as the Republican minority leader after voting with Democrats on extending the cap-and-trade automobile emission program.“We seek to shed the stereotype of the intolerant Republican Party that serves only the rich and big business,” Mr. Mayes said.Mr. Schwarzenegger was not the only Republican firepower on stage: John Kasich, the governor of Ohio, who is considering challenging President Trump for the Republican nomination in 2020, was also on hand.In Sacramento, the former governor — and occasional actor — broke with national Republicans (at least of today) when he championed environmental protection efforts, including stringent emission controls. In sentiments also reflected by Mr. Kasich and Mr. Mayes, Mr. Schwarzenegger said the Republican Party had to be “environmentally progressive, socially liberal and fiscally conservative” in order to be competitive.“Our party is giving them Twitter fights instead of answers,” Mr. Schwarzenegger said. “And it is sinking us. It is time to return to the issues.”“The politics of division and anger and resentment can drive a strong base to the polls, yes,” he said. “But it is tearing our country apart at the seams. And nothing is getting done.”(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• Mark Zuckerberg on whether he’s concerned about Facebook users deleting their accounts. “I think it’s a clear signal that this is a major trust issue for people, and I understand that. And whether people delete their app over it or just don’t feel good about using Facebook, that’s a big issue that I think we have a responsibility to rectify.” Full interview.• You can quit Facebook if you simply find no joy in it. But if you’re looking to leave for philosophical reasons concerning privacy, it’s a futile effort. You may be better off tweaking your privacy settings on the site. [The New York Times]• Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles hasn’t made it official yet. But he visited New Hampshire last year and is traveling to Iowa in April. Hint: One of his advisers says he is “interested in hearing what’s on people’s minds across the country.” [Politico]• Police officers in Sacramento fatally shot a young black man in his backyard over the weekend after he walked toward them carrying what they believed was a gun. The only object they found was a cellphone. [The New York Times]• A police officer and five other people were wounded in a daylight shootout in San Francisco. [San Francisco Chronicle]• A reporter recounts her interactions in 2014 with a nervous public relations team representing Theranos, the blood testing company. She was at a pharmacy interviewing patients when company handlers made it clear they were unhappy with her reporting. Then the fire alarm went off. [California Healthline]• A Sacramento lawyer filed a class-action lawsuit on behalf of victims of “Greyhound therapy.” Mentally ill people were cast out of a Las Vegas psychiatric hospital and issued bus tickets to cities across the country. [Sacramento Bee]• The composer Jimmy López returned to Berkeley to research a choral work about immigrants that he is calling “Dreamer.” [The New York Times]• What you get for $1.5 million. Two bedrooms in San Francisco or a five-bedroom mansion outside Boston. [The New York Times]The Times reporter David Streitfeld had an article Wednesday on Facebook’s plans to build a community with housing and retail in its hometown, Menlo Park in Silicon Valley. But if reader comments are any indication, the project faces an uphill battle to acceptance.Many commenters referenced the escalating crisis over Cambridge Analytica and the company’s lax approach to privacy as reason enough to stay away. Facebook might have two billion users, but many are wary of living in Facebookland:• “That sounds great: a whole city full of ‘Ready Player One’ arrogant nerds closing ranks against reality. We can measure their success by the zeroed-out birthrate and the truckloads of Amazon boxes full of inflatable companionship.”• “Much like smart speakers, this new model community is a Faustian bargain, where you sacrifice your personal privacy and private data rights in exchange for high-end centrally located conveniences all too willingly provided by a company whose sole intent is to monetize the details of your daily life by auctioning off your information to the highest bidder.”But a few readers celebrated the efficiency of Big Tech:• “I’ve been much more pleased with my dealings with Facebook — and Google, and Apple, and Amazon — than any city, county, or state government. I’ve gotten extreme value from tech, while I’ve mostly got waste, incompetence and corruption from government.”California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.