 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• It was the largest-ever expulsion of Russian officials from the U.S., even more than in the darkest days of the Cold War.President Trump joined a coordinated effort by at least 23 countries on Monday to retaliate for the poisoning of a Russian former spy in Britain. Sixty Russian officials and their families were given seven days to leave the U.S., and the Russian Consulate in Seattle will be closed.While the European Union isn’t known as a model of decisiveness, its leaders came together to punish President Vladimir Putin of Russia and to support Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, our chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe notes. Even Hungary, which has warm relations with Mr. Putin, expelled a Russian diplomat.• The Kremlin has denied any involvement in the nerve-agent attack and made clear that it would respond to the coordinated expulsions in kind. Our correspondent provides the view from Moscow.• The post-World War II system that the West put in place to keep the peace is under threat, and not only from Russia.Institutions like NATO, the European Union and the World Trade Organization are also under assault from some of the very powers that constructed them — not least the U.S., under President Trump.• With rising nationalism and economic anxieties, “What we’ve seen is a kind of backlash to liberal democracy,” one scholar in Belgium said.• The 2020 U.S. census will ask respondents that question to better measure how many people are eligible to vote, the Commerce Department announced on Monday. (The department oversees the Census Bureau.)But critics warned that people who are in the U.S. illegally might be less likely to respond, resulting in an undercount of the population and faulty data for government agencies. The redistricting of political districts could also be affected.• Separately, the Environmental Protection Agency is considering a major change to the way it assesses scientific work, a move that would severely restrict the research it can use when writing regulations.• “It’s a political Catch-22,” a Republican strategist said. “Candidates can’t win without their base. But what it takes to satisfy a pro-Trump base in 2018 will make Republican candidates in many states unacceptable to large swaths of the electorate.”Allegations of an affair with the porn star Stephanie Clifford are helping to make President Trump’s behavior a campaign issue for the midterm elections in November. Mr. Trump has denied her accusations (just not on Twitter).• In Ms. Clifford’s interview on “60 Minutes” on Sunday, she used some of Mr. Trump’s own tactics, our chief TV critic writes.• Regulators, politicians and law enforcement officials are demanding information  about Facebook’s privacy practices, as the social network’s relationship with a political data firm draws increasing scrutiny.• Small and midsize grocery companies  are struggling to stay afloat, under pressure from Amazon, Walmart and discount stores.• After Citigroup limited firearm sales by its retail clients, our business columnist suggested two more steps that banks could take to influence the gun control debate.• U.S. stocks were up on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Use a credit card when renovating your home, and earn rewards to finance a vacation.• Whether or not you have children, writing a will creates your legacy.• Recipe of the day: Try pizza topped with caramelized onions, figs, bacon and blue cheese.Great pieces from around the web:“I’m a big fan of explainers in graphic or comic form, and this animated comic does an excellent job of explaining how nuclear strikes are launched, and most important, avoided. Let’s start with that narrowly avoided nuclear catastrophe in 1983.” [The Nib]— Alan Henry, Smarter Living editor“It’s going to take me a while to get through this feature, but for good reason — it’s a deep dive into the 101 dishes that changed America. Some of the picks are obvious (hot dogs, 1916; nachos, 1943); others might be surprises (gargouillou, 1980; Spam musubi, 1985). It’s all delightful.” [Thrillist]— Dan Saltzstein, senior staff editor, Travel• In memoriamLinda Brown’s exclusion from an all-white school prompted one of the most transformative court proceedings in American history, the 1954 school desegregation case Brown v. Board of Education. She has died at 75.• The secrets of cockroachesThey can live for a week without a head. They eat just about anything. They can run as fast as 210 miles an hour, relative to their size.All of those feats, and more, are encoded in the insect’s genome, which scientists recently finished sequencing.• No Cinderella stories hereThe final four teams in the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament are all No. 1 seeds. Connecticut and Notre Dame advanced on Monday to join Louisville and Mississippi State.• Best of late-night TVStephen Colbert considered Stephanie Clifford’s story on “60 Minutes”: “It’s an insane, salacious tale about a sitting president — and the least surprising story I have ever heard.”• Quotation of the day“She escaped the anti-Semitism of the Nazis, but in the end her destiny followed her because she was killed because of anti-Semitism.”— Francis Kalifat, a Jewish leader in France, referring to Mireille Knoll, 85, who escaped the Holocaust but was stabbed to death in Paris last week.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.On this day in 1915, Mary Mallon, nicknamed Typhoid Mary, was placed in quarantine for the second time in New York City. Though she never displayed any symptoms of the disease, she would be confined for the rest of her life.In 1906, health officials tied Ms. Mallon to outbreaks of typhoid fever in seven wealthy families for whom she had worked as a cook.She was confirmed to be a carrier of the disease and quarantined. Doctors released her in 1910 under the condition that she no longer work as a cook. Shortly after, she disappeared.Ms. Mallon was found in 1915 by officials investigating a typhoid outbreak in a Manhattan hospital. She had been working there as a cook, under an assumed name.She was then quarantined for 23 years, until her death at 69 in 1938 after a stroke.During her life, the public was fascinated by Ms. Mallon. She often appeared in news stories and cartoons, with one depicting her frying skulls in a pan. She was frustrated by the attention and by her captivity, once describing herself as “a peep show for everybody.”Her case is often cited during public health crises, such as the Ebola epidemic, in debates over officials’ power to quarantine people they believe carry diseases.Jillian Rayfield contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.