As of March 16, Benji, the scruffy box-office sensation of the 1970s and ’80s, is back and Netflix has got him. A new movie simply titled “Benji,” starring an adorable and agile mutt who’s pretty much the original’s equal in the winsome department, will have its premiere on that date. “Benji” was written and directed by Brandon Camp, whose father, Joe Camp, began making movies about this very good but occasionally mischievous canine back in 1974.
This was the height of the scrappy “Easy Riders, Raging Bulls” era of Hollywood, so, aptly enough, Mr. Camp’s own career narrative was that of a maverick independent. Writing in 2015, my friend, the critic Vadim Rizov told Mr. Camp’s story — eventual box-office triumph after multiple rejections from the big bad studios — for the A.V. Club and assessed all the Benji movies up to that time. Mr. Rizov’s work remains a Baedeker of Benji.
It is probably fitting that a new “Benji” should find its home on a streaming service. (In an appearance on the “Today” show,” Brandon Camp, appearing with his dad, said that he and one of the movie’s co-producers, Jason Blum, had conducted a nationwide search for a dog to play the role, and found their pooch, whom they named Benji — the first mutt was actually named Higgins — after it had been abandoned in a parking lot in Virginia.)
Over the years Mr. Rizov has exposed me to some low-quality live-action cute animal movies featured on video-on-demand and streaming services. In a recent email exchange, he told me of parents on the Amazon movie-review sections bemoaning the existence of such fare “so terrible” not even a 4-year-old could enjoy it. (One such item is titled “A Talking Cat!?!” the punctuation of which should give you an idea of the quality of its special effects, among other things.) At least “Benji” represents a proven, reliable brand.
The new picture is a remake of the original 1974 “Benji,” with a few variations. It changes the location from a Texas town to New Orleans. The single parent who won’t let the brother and sister adopt the homeless dog is here a mom rather than a dad. The quaint diner that figured in the 1974 story line is now a quaint pawnshop. The kids, the brother and sister Carter and Frankie (played by Gabriel Bateman and Darby Camp, who is no relation to the director), are updated with 21st century savvy.
Plotting to keep the dog without telling Mom, they consider logistics. “Where is he gonna pee and poop?” Frankie asks. “In your bed,” Carter says, smirking; although he’s bullied at school, he feels free to sass his sister. The kids then contemplate naming the pooch. “What about Benji?” Carter says. The dog perks up. “He looks like a Benji,” the boy continues. “Old and new at the same time.”
Continuing to reprise the original, the kids are kidnapped by thieves (a plot element perhaps inspired by the 1965 Disney picture “That Darn Cat”). Benji pursues the abducted children with great vigor. In the immortal words of Chico Marx, “he’s some smart dog.” Benji also manages to open a door with a skeleton key and execute the time-honored gag of jumping on a garbage pail, then onto a Dumpster top, then to a fire-escape ladder, with great aplomb. The movie brims with walk-and-bark shots that show Benji wandering city streets and country roads and just being supercute. For the movie’s climax, he teams up with a scruffier beast to rescue the kids, and the siblings actually persuade a Doberman to abandon the Dark Side and to embrace the Force, whatever that is in dog consciousness.
As cute animal movies go, “Benji” is adult-watchable, and most likely child catnip. The kidnappers are not pleasant, but the level of child trauma experienced by their victims doesn’t come within swinging distance of what you get on a random episode of “Stranger Things.” The soundtrack not only features boomer-hip music selections like Cat Stevens’s “I Love My Dog” and John Hiatt’s “Have a Little Faith in Me,” but Charlie Rich’s original “Benji” theme, titled “I Feel Love.” (Not the Donna Summer song. Knock it off, wiseguy.)
THE RECENT announcement by the streaming site FilmStruck that it would be bringing immortal Hollywood classics like “Casablanca” and “Citizen Kane” to its service elicited much rejoicing on social media and websites, but it did not take long for some to point out the cloud obscuring the silver lining. The migration of hundreds of titles (over a period of time, not all at once) to FilmStruck is part of the shutdown of the Warner Archive streaming site, which will happen on April 26. (FilmStruck will continue to honor existing Warner Archive subscriptions.)
While many titles on the Warner site are a natural fit for FilmStruck, which features classic movies from around the world, there’s some concern in Twitter film circles about movies that might not pass muster. Titles like the 1943 RKO Picture “Tender Comrade” (cited in House Un-American Activities Committee hearings as an example of “Communist propaganda”) and the 1977 oddity “The Last Dinosaur” (a rare live-action outing for the animation producers Arthur Rankin Jr. and Jules Bass) have been cited on Twitter as candidates for streaming retirement. Two people involved in the transition assured me that the entire Warner Archive streaming library is liable to be available in rotation over time. So while certain titles won’t be immediately imported to FilmStruck, it’s very likely that they will turn up. In the meantime, the Warner Archive will remain a transactional entity, offering manufactured-on-demand DVDs of its library and video-on-demand rentals via iTunes, Amazon and other vendors.
