 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• If President Trump wanted a national security adviser who matched his blunt, confrontational approach to the world, he found him. Meet John Bolton.Mr. Trump dumped Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster on Thursday in favor of Mr. Bolton, who has called for military action against North Korea and has said the Iran nuclear deal is a “massive strategic blunder.” He doesn’t like the U.N., either.The shake-up creates one of the most hawkish national security teams of any White House in years.• Separately, John Dowd resigned on Thursday as Mr. Trump’s lead lawyer for the special counsel investigation. The two men disagreed over the president’s desire to be questioned by investigators.• Beijing announced today that it would impose tariffs on $3 billion worth of American-produced goods, hours after President Trump imposed tariffs on as much as $60 billion worth of Chinese goods.The prospect of a trade war sent U.S. stocks  lower on Thursday, but they  rose slightly in early trading this morning. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.• The Trump administration’s stiff tariffs on steel and aluminum begin today, but it granted brief exemptions to some allies and said it might impose import quotas.• The Senate passed a $1.3 trillion spending bill early this morning that would keep the federal government open through September. Funding was scheduled to expire tonight.The measure provides big increases to military and domestic programs and rebuffs the Trump administration’s efforts to sharply scale back the scope of government. Here’s a breakdown of what’s in the deal.• President Trump may veto the bill, he said on Twitter today.• A gunman killed three people in southwestern France today in a burst of violence that included hijacking a car, shooting at police officers, and opening fire and taking a hostage in a supermarket — an attack that rattled nerves in a country that has been hit hard by terrorism in recent years.The assailant, who claimed to be acting on behalf of the Islamic State, was killed by the police in Trèbes, about 50 miles southeast of Toulouse.• The interior minister identified him as Redouane Lakdim, 26, known to the police as a petty criminal and drug dealer.• More than 800 student-led demonstrations are planned this weekend to call for an end to gun violence. Here’s a map of scheduled protests across the U.S. and around the world.Whether the young activists inspired by March for Our Lives will become a disruptive force depends in large part on whether they stay organized and register to vote.• Separately, the 16-year-old girl who was shot at a school in Maryland on Tuesday will be removed from life support, her parents said.• The much-awaited antitrust trial involving AT&T’s proposed merger with Time Warner began on Thursday with starkly different visions of a future media landscape.• Citigroup is setting restrictions on the sale of firearms by its business customers. It’s the first Wall Street bank to take a stance on gun control.• Martin Shkreli went to prison for fraud, and so far Elizabeth Holmes of Theranos has not. Our business columnist asks if that’s fair.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• We have answers to questions about preparing a “green funeral.”• Movie-themed vacations are surprisingly easy to plan.• Recipe of the day: End the week with the perfect snack, chips and creamy queso.Our journalists recommend these great pieces:• “After Alabama decided this week to become the third state to legalize execution by nitrogen gas, I pulled up this astonishing and comprehensive article, which lays out various execution methods that some states can use.” [The Marshall Project]“And I listened again to the inaugural episode of one of my favorite podcasts. The riveting episode “Cruel and Unusual” examines nitrogen gas’s antecedent, the lethal injection, and makes a case, of sorts, for the integrity of the firing squad.” [Radiolab’s “More Perfect”]— Jan Hoffman, health and behavior reporter• “A group of freelance theater critics, all once affiliated with print publications, banded together to publish online reviews of Broadway and Off Broadway shows.” [New York Stage Review]— Michael Paulson, theater reporter• The last days of the Las Vegas gunmanUsing surveillance footage, we pieced together the final week in the life of Stephen Paddock, who killed 58 people in October. He plays video poker, laughs with hotel employees and hauls bag after bag of weapons to his suite.• The Biggest AppleNew York City’s population reached a record high of over 8.6 million last year, according to census data.• Quiz time!Did you keep up with this week’s news? Test yourself.• Top of the chartsTwo of this week’s best-seller lists have debuts at No. 1: Clive Cussler and Graham Brown’s thriller “The Rising Sea” in hardcover fiction, and Michael Isikoff and David Corn’s look at the 2016 presidential election, “Russian Roulette,” in hardcover nonfiction.And “A Brief History of Time” returns to our paperback nonfiction list in the top spot. Its author, Stephen Hawking, died last week.• Ready for the weekendAt the movies, our critics liked “Isle of Dogs,” directed by Wes Anderson, and “Pacific Rim Uprising,” starring John Boyega.We recommend 10 new books, and TV offerings based on your available viewing time.If you’re in New York City, here are 14 pop, rock and jazz concerts to check out, 23 art exhibitions and seven things to do with kids.And “Frozen” has arrived on Broadway. The stage musical adaptation of the animated blockbuster is beautiful, our theater critic writes, but a bit confusing.• Best of late-night TVTrevor Noah addressed this week’s war of words between President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden: “Personally I have no idea who would win this fight. I mean, Biden seems scrappy, but if 70 years of McDonald’s couldn’t take Trump down, I don’t know what can.”• Quotation of the day“People in the U.S. and China have for years said the wolf is coming, the wolf is coming, but the wolf hasn’t come. This time, the wolf is coming.”— Shi Yinhong, a professor at Renmin University in Beijing, warning that  leaders have been slow to realize the gravity of a brewing trade battle.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.It’s a shortcut used the world over — and even beyond, having been uttered at least once during a space mission.On this day in 1839, The Boston Morning Post published “O.K.” for the first known time, using the abbreviation next to the words “all correct.” (It’s not written “okay,” The Times stylebook says.)There have been many theories about its origin, but the most likely is that O.K. was an abbreviation for the deliberately misspelled “orl korrect” (all correct), and the expression gained prominence in the mid-19th century.Allen Walker Read, a longtime English professor at Columbia University, debunked some theories in the 1960s, including that the term had come from Andrew Jackson’s poor spelling, from a Native American word or from an Army biscuit.Today, O.K. is “an Americanism adopted by virtually every language, and one of the first words spoken on the moon,” the Times obituary of Mr. Read noted in 2002.The professor didn’t “appreciate having ‘O.K.’ overshadow the hundreds of other etymologies he divined,” it continued. He also tracked early uses of Dixie, Podunk and the “almighty dollar.”In the 1920s, Mr. Read hitchhiked through western Iowa hunting down the word “blizzard.”“A man called Lightnin’ Ellis had first used the word for a snowstorm in 1870,” he learned. “Within 10 years, it had spread throughout the Midwest.”Charles McDermid contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.