Updated, 9:30 a.m.Good morning on this gray Wednesday.The National Cherry Blossom Festival is again making our country’s capital blush.Which got us wondering — is there an official flower for New York City?The state flower has long been the rose. A decade ago, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg named the city flower the daffodil, widely used to commemorate the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks. Before that, there were official borough flowers — the tulip and rose for Queens, the pinkster azalea for Staten Island, the yellow forsythia for Brooklyn and the day lily for the Bronx. Manhattan did not have one.But with spring flora beginning to blossom, we thought it was a perfect time to nominate a new city bloom. We asked some local flower experts to weigh in.Native witch hazel, said Scot Medbury, president of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.The city flower would have to be resilient enough to handle the roller coaster that is winter in New York, Mr. Medbury told us.“The native one I’m recommending flowers in the autumn, after the leaves drop — it’s a beautifully golden color at a time of year you don’t see a lot of flowers, November, and it’s fragrant, so you almost smell it before you see it,” he said. “I think it’s emblematic of paying attention to nature. They unfurl like a lizard’s tongue — when the weather warms up the petals roll out, and when the weather’s cold, they roll back up, causing you to look closely.”Tulips, said Gennadyi Gurman, head of interpretation at the Queens Botanical Garden.“The tulip has Dutch heritage, and New York celebrates a Dutch-English mixture of culture throughout every one of our official aspects,” Mr. Gurman said, citing the Queens borough flag as an example. “It would be the city flower because of the dual nature of the establishment of our city — it was first New Amsterdam, and only then it became New York.”The wheat flower, said the Manhattan borough historian, Michael Miscione.“The processing of wheat into flour, you see, was instrumental in turbocharging the city’s economy in that critical period after the final turnover of the city from Dutch rule to English,” he explained.“Today,” he added, “we still have wheat to thank — but for the city’s culinary prosperity. I’m talking bagels, pizza and Cronuts!”Marsh mallows, said Todd Forrest, a vice president at the New York Botanical Garden.The official flower would have to reflect the qualities for which New Yorkers are celebrated, he told us: “Tough, like New York ironweed or white wood aster. Elegant like flowering dogwood. Larger than life like tulip tree.”But when pressed to pick just one, Mr. Forrest chose the marsh mallow. “This native beauty grows in wetlands and has the most exuberant flower of any native plant,” he said. “It is brassy, adaptable and stands out in a crowd.”Here’s what else is happening:April showers are coming a few days ahead of schedule.There’s a chance of rain today and a high of 53, and the rest of the week will be gray and drizzly.Hair forecast: weeping willow.• The firefighter who was killed in the Harlem fire was eulogized by Mayor Bill de Blasio as a “hero of the highest order.” [New York Times]• Does Facebook customize housing rental ads to exclude certain groups? [New York Times]• A police officer lied about how a gun was discovered. Now he’s being charged with perjury. [New York Times]• Federal authorities raided two homes associated with the upstate cult that branded women. [New York Times]• Did the nanny who fatally stabbed two children in her care on the Upper West Side know she was wrong for killing them? That is the question a jury will have to wrestle with. [New York Times]• Andrew J. McDonald lost his bid to become Connecticut’s next chief justice after a harsh partisan clash. [New York Times]• A former police officer was sentenced to 14 years in prison for acting as an enforcer for a violent Albanian gangster. [New York Times]• The former Brooklyn district attorney admitted that he misused his city email in 2013, ending his legal troubles around the matter. [New York Times]• Tanzina Vega has been named the new host of WNYC’s “The Takeaway.” [New York Times]• Producers of the Broadway show “Carousel” are revising their Playbill to give due credit to the show’s original choreographer, Agnes de Mille. [New York Times]• Dime Savings Bank in Williamsburg has been officially declared a city landmark. [Bedford and Bowery]• The city’s newly appointed “Night Mayor” made her first public appearance. [BKLYNER]• This three-part series, “The Slow Boat to Bail Reform,” explores bail reform in the city — and the jail barge you may have seen floating in the East River. [WNYC]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “68th Street Surprise”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• “Be: Women of Color,” an exhibition of acrylic works by the artist Walter Cruz, at Poe Park Visitor Center in the Bronx. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. [Free]• “Decarcerate Brooklyn: What Closing Rikers Means for Our Borough,” a panel about the future of the borough, public safety and social justice, at Brooklyn Law School. 6 p.m. [Free; R.S.V.P. required]• The New Directors/New Films festival, which spotlights emerging filmmakers from around the world, begins at the Museum of Modern Art in Midtown. 7 p.m., through April 8. [Prices vary; tickets here]• A monthlong run of Shakespeare’s “The Winter’s Tale” continues at Polonsky Shakespeare Center in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. 7:30 p.m. [Tickets start at $90]• “All Is Forgiven: A Non-Religious Comedy Show About Religion,” at Q.E.D. in Astoria, Queens. 7:30 p.m. [$10]• Nets at Magic, 7 p.m. (YES). Knicks at 76ers, 7 p.m. (MSG). Rangers at Capitals, 8 p.m. (NBCSN).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until Thursday.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.The White House Easter Egg Roll is near. (It’s an event so high profile that it even has its own unofficial Twitter feed.)But New York, never one to be outshined, has its own seasonal tradition.For the third year, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is welcoming New Yorkers to the Executive Mansion in Albany for an Easter shindig on Saturday afternoon, when families can meet the governor and join him for an egg hunt.(It is unclear how he may react to egg hunters’ questions on his campaign for re-election in November, his presidential ambitions for 2020 or other noteworthy current events.)You can enter the lottery here — registration ends today at 1 p.m. Those selected will be notified by email on Thursday and have the opportunity to bring one guest, in addition to any of their own children under the age of 16.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.