To the Editor:Re “How Small-Town America Sees Guns,” by Robert Leonard (Op-Ed, March 17):Some of us might remember a popular slogan from another time: “You can have my gun when you pry it from my cold, dead fingers.” It’s not a failure to understand these values; it’s a refusal to accept them as tenable.I grew up hunting pheasants and deer in eastern Pennsylvania. I spent 10 years in West Virginia. My wife is a Texan. Trust me, I know rural values. But we’re not talking about hunting pheasants with a .410 shotgun. We’re talking about assault weapons, about weapons of war. We’re talking about our children.Those of us who favor gun control are certainly capable of understanding the rural ethos that makes God and guns part of “first principles,” even though most of us would call such a principle a dangerous fallacy.Saying that for conservatives compromising first principles would be “more horrific and detrimental to society than any shooting” creates a tragic false dilemma. Either we choose guns. Or we choose our children. The Second Amendment is not inviolable. Our children are not expendable.SAM PRITCHARD, AMES, IOWATo the Editor:Robert Leonard concludes by stating, “If Democrats want to engage rural America culturally and politically, they need to understand us, and at least some of our ideals.” What, though, if we do understand you, but still think that your attitudes toward guns — at least the more extreme attitudes — are unhealthy?I’m a hunter myself and appreciate a nice shotgun as much as any farm boy. But when people’s identities start to be defined by their AR-15s and Glocks, when they start to believe that their liberty is under perpetual threat from vague and sinister forces, and when their sense of self-worth is tightly tied to their ability to exert deadly force over others, I don’t think they need understanding; I think they need therapy. Sometimes understanding a culture gives you reason to respect it less, not more.ROB LEWIS, OAKVILLE, ONTARIOTo the Editor:Most of the people I know from the Midwest — where I was born, raised and educated — are better, smarter and more willing to engage in serious dialogue than the caricatures Robert Leonard describes.They know that different views on how to reduce gun violence cannot be resolved by talk radio-style debates on human nature or the effects of “original sin” and that the real question is what can be done to reduce the incidence of gun violence in the future.Most small-town Americans also recognize that ignoring the evidence by dismissing it as “throwing around statistics” is not likely to encourage a healthy dialogue, particularly when common sense suggests — and studies have confirmed — that restricting access to assault weapons reduces the incidence of mass murders.Finally, they know that despite the N.R.A.’s fear-mongering, taking away rural America’s guns is not on the table and that we should be discussing real issues, not fake ones.DAN KASPERWEST STOCKBRIDGE, MASS.To the Editor:I appreciated Robert Leonard’s framing the gun-violence issue from a small-town perspective. To understand the deep attachment to guns, and the view that violence is the result of bad choices by people who lack moral guidance, is helpful to gun control advocates like me.I think the bigger question, if we as a nation want to substantially reduce gun violence, is which can we more realistically control: people’s bad choices or their access to highly lethal weapons? In my professional experience as a psychiatrist, I find it exceedingly difficult to change people who are not motivated to change. Reducing access is the only realistic option.RICHARD GOLDWASSERMILL VALLEY, CALIF.To the Editor:As a shooter who grew up in a small town, I believe the small-town holders of the views that Robert Leonard reports are misguided. The principal point of gun control is not confiscation of guns but keeping them out of the hands of people who are a danger to themselves and others.States like Connecticut and Massachusetts make a determined and fairly successful effort to do this. These states have some of the strictest firearms laws in the United States and the lowest per capita rate of gun deaths. As a holder of gun permits in both states, I’m familiar with the firearms regulatory schemes.Each state requires a would-be gun owner to pass a background check, usually be interviewed and provide evidence of having had satisfactory firearms training. If the applicant is barred by a felony conviction or other statutory disqualifiers, or is deemed unsuitable to carry a firearm, the application is denied.Unsuitability would include a history of suicidal ideation, alcohol or drug abuse, domestic violence, serious emotional problems that indicate a propensity to violence, or irresponsible behavior. In both states there is an appeals mechanism.The process takes several months, but I didn’t think it was onerous. Certainly, it seemed a reasonable predicate to allowing someone to own and carry a firearm.JAMES A. GREERCHESTNUT HILL, MASS.To the Editor:I am getting truly tired of hearing how I, an urbanite, a native New Yorker, has to “understand” the mind of my gun-loving rural compatriots. How about Middle America trying to understand urbanites like me, coming from a family that never owned a gun, has never seen the value of owning a weapon, and witnesses with horror the statistics of people of all ages killed in this country?Why don’t they take a good hard look at the examples of Australia and European countries that have enacted strict gun control and where children go to school without fear that this could be the last day of their lives?Who is being the stubborn party here? From where I sit, gun control advocates are the real pro-lifers in this country.ELLEN SHIRE, NEW YORKTo the Editor:Robert Leonard, in defending how small-town America looks at guns, notes that gun owners believe that having a gun makes them less likely to be a victim. Wrong. Study after study shows that having a gun in the house is more likely to lead to gun violence in the home. Study after study shows that states with looser gun restrictions have more gun deaths.Australia passed strong gun control laws in 1996 after a mass shooting. Murder by guns virtually stopped in that country. No Western countries other than ours have anywhere near the amount of gun carnage we do. Why? Better laws. This month a California teacher discharged his weapon by mistake in the classroom. It is no wonder that teachers overwhelmingly oppose arming teachers as a safety measure.Mr. Leonard seems to think that raising the age to buy a gun is a significant compromise. Maybe he should tell that to the grieving families who lost loved ones to the Las Vegas shooter, a man in his 60s who murdered innocent concertgoers with weapons barred by most civilized nations.RUTH DELL, TIBURON, CALIF.To the Editor:When I was in grade school, I vividly recall how once in a while the teacher would declare that some privilege or other would be infringed or abolished because it had been abused one too many times by just one or two of my classmates. And without fail, a few kids would respond to these announcements with red-faced, furious howls of “no fair, no fair!” I remember sitting in silent dismay at these moments, wondering why we all had to be punished for the actions of just one or two.And over the years, it probably occurred to me that the teacher had no choice but to prevent the means of disruption so that the class could function. Is it possible that some children, urban or rural, never learn this lesson?LARRY DEBLINGERMONROE, N.Y.